 Change, remove, or turn off animation effects in PowerPoint | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Change, remove, or turn off animation effects in PowerPoint Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016 Get help with Copilot How can I change an animation effect in PowerPoint? Show me how to add more effects to an object. Change, remove, or turn off animation effects In PowerPoint, you can change one animation effect applied to an object for another, modify the settings for an animation, or remove the animation from the object. Windows Mac Web Change an animation effect Select the object that has the animation effect that you want to change. On the Animations tab, select the new animation that you want. Remove one animation effect You can remove animation effects that you previously applied to text or objects (such as pictures, shapes, SmartArt graphics, and so on). Note If you're looking for information on removing a transition effect from an entire slide, see Add, change, or remove transitions between slides . On the Animations tab, select Animation Pane . On the slide, select the animated object that you want to remove the effect from. Tip All of the effects applied to that object are highlighted in the Animation Pane. In the Animation Pane , select the effect you want to remove, select the down arrow, and then select Remove . Remove more than one or remove all animation effects To remove more than one animation effect from text or an object, in the Animation Pane , press Ctrl, select each animation effect that you want to remove, and then press Delete. To remove all animation effects from text or an object, select the object that you want to stop animating. Then, on the Animations tab, in the gallery of animation effects, select None . Turn off all animations in a presentation Although you can't remove all animations from an entire presentation in one step (you have to remove animations from each object individually, as described above), you can disable all animations in your presentation. On the Slide Show tab, select Set Up Slide Show . Under Show options , select Show without animation . See also Animate text or objects Note If you're looking for information about changing or removing transitions between slides, see Add, edit, or remove transitions between slides . To change or remove an animation effect you've created, select the slide you want, select the Animations tab, and then use the Animations pane on the right to edit or rearrange effects. Tip If you don't see the Animations pane, make sure you are in Normal view, and then select Animation Pane on the Animations tab. In the Animations pane, you can do any of the following: Move or delete an animation Select the effect in the Animations pane. At the top of the pane, select the arrow keys to change the order of your animations, or select the red X to delete an animation. To delete all animations from a slide at once, select the first item in the list, press and hold the SHIFT key as you select on the last item in the list, and then select the red X. Change to a different animation Select the effect in the Animations pane, and select a different effect in the ribbon on the Animations tab. Add another animation to the same object First select the text or object on the slide (not in the Animations pane), and then select the additional effect you want to apply. Change the effect properties Select the effect in the Animations pane and make the changes you want under Effect Options . The settings available here depend on the type of animation you selected. This example shows the options for a Fly In animation. Change the effect timing Select the effect in the Animations pane and make the changes you want under Timing . Options include how the animation is triggered, how long it lasts, and whether you want to delay its start or repeat it. For longer animations that might get triggered again during your presentation, you can choose Rewind when done playing to speed things up a little bit the second time around. If you want to disable animations from an entire presentation, select the Slide Show tab, select Set Up Slide Show , and then select Show without animation . See also Apply multiple animation effects to one object Add a motion path animation effect Animate or make words appear one line at a time Animate bullet points one at a time Add, edit, or remove transitions between slides Change an animation effect Select the object that has the animation effect that you want to change. On the Animations tab, select the new animation that you want. Remove one animation effect You can remove animation effects that you previously applied to text or objects (such as pictures, shapes, SmartArt graphics, and so on). Note If you're looking for information on removing a transition effect from an entire slide, see Add, change, or remove transitions between slides . On the Animations tab, select Animation Pane . On the slide, select the animated object that you want to remove the effect from. Tip All of the effects applied to that object are highlighted in the Animation pane. In the Animation pane, select the effect you want to remove. Then, on that effect, select Delete . Remove more than one animation effect at once On the Animations tab, select Animation Pane . In the Animation pane, multi-select the effects you want to remove: Press and hold Ctrl while you select each animation effect in turn. At the top of the pane, select Delete . Tip To remove all the animation effects from a single object at once, you can select the object, then on the Animations tab, open the Animations gallery and select None . Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026 