 Add animation effects in PowerPoint on a mobile device | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Add animation effects in PowerPoint on a mobile device Applies To PowerPoint for iPad PowerPoint for iPhone PowerPoint for Android tablets PowerPoint for Android phones PowerPoint Mobile Animation is a great way to emphasize a point, control information flow, and increase viewer interest. Android iOS Windows Mobile Add an animation effect Tap the slide you want to animate. Tap the Edit icon , tap Home , and then tap Animations . Tap the object you want to animate, such as a block of text or a shape. Choose the type of animation; for example, tap Entrance Effects . Choose the effect that you want to add; for example, tap Fly In . A numbered animation marker appears to indicate the effect's presence. (You can add multiple animations to an item, such as an entrance animation and an exit animation.) (Optional) Tap Effect Options Property to customize the animation effect. Depending on the type of animation you are using, you can choose the direction and sequence of the animation. The mobile app can't insert all the animation effects that the desktop app includes, but it can play any animation effect added by any PowerPoint app. Remove an animation effect Go to the slide that contains the animation effect that you want to remove. Tap the numeric animation marker. Tap Delete . See animations in a presentation Tap the slide show icon on the upper toolbar to start your presentation. If you don't see the toolbar at the top of the window, tap the down arrow on the floating toolbar to hide that toolbar and show the upper toolbar. To navigate through the presentation: Flick left to go to the next slide (or slide animation). Flick right to go to the previous one. To stop the slide show, tap the End Show icon . Add an animation effect Tap the slide you want to animate. Tap the Edit icon , tap Home , and then tap Animations . Tap the object you want to animate, such as a block of text or a shape. Choose the type of animation; for example, tap Entrance Effects . Choose the effect that you want to add; for example, tap Fly In . A numbered animation marker appears to indicate the effect's presence. (You can add multiple animations to an item, such as an entrance animation and an exit animation.) (Optional) Tap Effect Options Property to customize the animation effect. Depending on the type of animation you are using, you can choose the direction and sequence of the animation. The mobile app can't insert all the animation effects that the desktop app includes, but it can play any animation effect added by any PowerPoint app. Remove an animation effect Go to the slide that contains the animation effect that you want to remove. Tap the numeric animation marker. Tap Delete . See an animation effect in action Tap the Play icon to start your presentation . To navigate through the presentation: Flick left to go to the next slide (or slide animation). Flick right to go to the previous one. To stop the slide show, tap the End Show icon . See animations in a presentation Tap the slide show icon to start your presentation. To navigate through the presentation: Flick left to go to the next slide (or slide animation), or flick right to go to the previous one. To zoom in or out on a slide, you can either pinch your fingers together on the screen, or stretch them apart. To exit the show, tap the top of your screen, and then tap End Show . On your Windows phone, tap the End Show icon at the top of your screen . Add or remove animations On a Windows tablet or phone, you can’t use the PowerPoint app to add animations to or remove animations from a presentation; however, you can play back animations that have been added previously with another version of PowerPoint. Sound effects and motion paths aren't available You can't add sound effects or motion paths to animations in PowerPoint on mobile devices at this time. Animations versus transitions In PowerPoint, animations are not the same as transitions . An animation affects a single slide. A transition animates the way one slide changes to the next. For information about adding and removing transitions, go to Add transition effects to your PowerPoint presentation with your mobile device . Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026 