 Trigger an animation effect | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Trigger an animation effect Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016 Get help with Copilot How can I trigger an animation effect to begin I click it? What if I can't save a copy of a trimmed media file? Help me trigger an animation to begin during a video You can trigger an animation effect to begin playing at the beginning of an audio or video clip, or even while audio or video plays. You can also trigger an animation effect to start when you click the shape or object that will be animated. Windows Microsoft 365 for Mac Trigger an animation effect to begin when you click it Select the shape or object you want to add an animation to. Go to Animations > Advanced Animation > Add Animation and select the animation you want to add. Next, go to Animations > Advanced Animation > Animation Pane . In the Animation Pane , select the animated shape or other object that you want to trigger to play when you click it. In the Advanced Animation group, click Trigger , point to On Click of , and then select the object. Trigger an animation to begin during a video or audio clip To trigger an animation effect to play during a video or audio clip, you must first insert a bookmark at the desired point in the clip. Add a bookmark to your video or audio clip for where you want to trigger an animation effect to begin. Go to Animations > Advanced Animation > Animation Pane . In the Animation Pane , select the animation effect that you want to begin at a certain point during the audio or video clip. In the Advanced Animation group, click Trigger , point to On Bookmark , and select the bookmark that you want to trigger the animation to begin. Note On macOS, this feature is only available to Microsoft 365 subscribers. Trigger an animation effect to begin when you click it Select the shape or object you want to add an animation to. Go to the Animations tab and select the animation you want to add. Next, go to Animations and select Animation Pane . The Animation Pane opens. In the Animation Pane , select the animated shape or other object that you want to trigger to play when you click it. On the Animation tab, select Trigger , point to On Click , and then choose the object: Trigger an animation to begin during a video or audio clip To trigger an animation effect to play during a video or audio clip, you must first insert a bookmark at the desired point in the clip. Add a bookmark to your video or audio clip for where you want to trigger an animation effect to begin. Go to Animations and select Animation Pane . In the Animation Pane , select the animation effect that you want to begin at a certain point during the audio or video clip. On the Animation tab, select Trigger , point to On Bookmark , and choose the bookmark that you want to trigger the animation to begin. See Also Animation basics Animate text or objects Animation timings Set the animation timing or effect options Bookmarks for clips Add or remove a bookmark for audio and video clips Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026 