URL: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/shut-down-sleep-or-hibernate-your-pc-2941d165-7d0a-a5e8-c5ad-8c972e8e6eff | descarcat cu curl 13.09.2026

Shut down, sleep, or hibernate your PC | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Shut down, sleep, or hibernate your PC Applies To Windows 11 Windows 10 Get help with Copilot How do I set my PC to hibernate? How do I change power settings in Windows? How do I turn my PC off completely? There are many ways to shut down your PC—you can turn the PC off completely, you can make it sleep, or you can hibernate the PC. Windows 11 Windows 10 Turn your PC off completely To shut down, select Start and then select Power > Shut down . Sleep Sleep uses very little power, your PC starts up faster, and you’re instantly back to where you left off. You don’t have to worry that you'll lose your work because of your battery draining because Windows automatically saves all your work and turns off the PC if the battery is too low. Use Sleep when you’re going to be away from your PC for just a little while—like when you’re taking a coffee break. For a lot of PCs (especially laptops and tablets), your PC goes to sleep when you close your lid or press the power button. To set your PC so it goes to sleep when you close the lid or press the power button: Select Search on the taskbar, type control panel , and select it from the results. Select System and Security . In the Power Options section, select Choose what the power buttons do . Select Change settings that are currently unavailable . Select options based on how you want Sleep to work: For a laptop, expand the list for When I close the lid in the On battery column and select Sleep . Repeat for the Plugged in column, if desired. For a desktop, tablet, or laptop, expand the list for When I press the power button in the On battery column and select Sleep . Repeat for the Plugged in column, if desired. Select Save changes . When you’re ready to make your PC sleep, just press the power button on your desktop, tablet, or laptop, or close your laptop’s lid. On most PCs, you can resume working by pressing your PC's power button. However, not all PCs are the same. You might be able to wake it by pressing any key on the keyboard, clicking a mouse button, or opening the lid on a laptop. Check the documentation that came with your computer or go to the manufacturer's website. Hibernate This option was designed for laptops and might not be available for all PCs. (For example, PCs with InstantGo don't have the hibernate option.) Hibernate uses less power than sleep and when you start up the PC again, you’re back to where you left off (though not as fast as sleep). Use hibernation when you know that you won't use your laptop or tablet for an extended period and won't have an opportunity to charge the battery during that time. First check to see if this option is available on your PC and if it is, turn it on. To set your PC so it can hibernate: Select Search on the taskbar, type control panel , and select it from the results. Select System and Security . In the Power Options section, select Choose what the power buttons do . Select Change settings that are currently unavailable . In the Shutdown settings section, select Hibernate . Select Save changes . Now you’ll be able to hibernate your PC in a few different ways: Select Start , and then select Power > Hibernate . Press the Windows logo key + X on your keyboard, and then select Shut down or sign out > Hibernate . You can also set closing the lid or pressing the power or sleep buttons to hibernate your PC, if you so desire, using the same directions in To set your PC so it goes to sleep when you close the lid or press the power button . Note If devices connected to your PC (like monitors, printers, or scanners) aren't working properly after waking up from sleep or hibernate, you might need to disconnect and reconnect your device or restart your PC. You should also make sure that you have the most current drivers for all of your devices. Turn your PC off completely To shut down, select Start and then select Power > Shut down . Sleep Sleep uses very little power, your PC starts up faster, and you’re instantly back to where you left off. You don’t have to worry that you'll lose your work because of your battery draining because Windows automatically saves all your work and turns off the PC if the battery is too low. Use Sleep when you’re going to be away from your PC for just a little while—like when you’re taking a coffee break. For a lot of PCs (especially laptops and tablets), your PC goes to sleep when you close your lid or press the power button. To set your PC so it goes to sleep when you close the lid or press the power button: Open power options—select Start , then select Settings > System > Power & sleep > Additional power settings . Do one of the following: If you’re using a desktop, tablet, or laptop, select Choose what the power buttons does . Next to When I press the power button , select Sleep , and then select Save changes . If you’re using only a laptop, select Choose what closing the lid does . Next to When I close the lid , select Sleep , and then select Save changes . When you’re ready to make your PC sleep, just press the power button on your desktop, tablet, or laptop, or close your laptop’s lid. On most PCs, you can resume working by pressing your PC's power button. However, not all PCs are the same. You might be able to wake it by pressing any key on the keyboard, clicking a mouse button, or opening the lid on a laptop. Check the documentation that came with your computer or go to the manufacturer's website. Hibernate This option was designed for laptops and might not be available for all PCs. (For example, PCs with InstantGo don't have the hibernate option.) Hibernate uses less power than sleep and when you start up the PC again, you’re back to where you left off (though not as fast as sleep). Use hibernation when you know that you won't use your laptop or tablet for an extended period and won't have an opportunity to charge the battery during that time. First check to see if this option is available on your PC and if it is, turn it on. To hibernate your PC: Open power options—select Start , then select Settings > System > Power & sleep > Additional power settings . Select Choose what the power button does , and then select Change settings that are currently unavailable . Under Shutdown settings , select the Hibernate checkbox (if it's available), and then select Save changes . Now you’ll be able to hibernate your PC in a few different ways: Select Start , and then select Power > Hibernate . Press the Windows logo key + X on your keyboard, and then select Shut down or sign out > Hibernate . Note If devices connected to your PC (like monitors, printers, or scanners) aren't working properly after waking up from sleep or hibernate, you might need to disconnect and reconnect your device or restart your PC. You should also make sure that you have the most current drivers for all of your devices. Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026