https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/use-keyboard-shortcuts-to-deliver-powerpoint-presentations-1524ffce-bd2a-45f4-9a7f-f18b992b93a0

Use keyboard shortcuts to deliver PowerPoint presentations | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Use keyboard shortcuts to deliver PowerPoint presentations Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016 Many users find that using an external keyboard with keyboard shortcuts for PowerPoint helps them work more efficiently. For users with mobility or vision disabilities, keyboard shortcuts can be easier than using the touchscreen and are an essential alternative to using a mouse. For a separate list of shortcuts to use while creating your presentation, go to Use keyboard shortcuts to create PowerPoint presentations . Note The shortcuts in this topic refer to the US keyboard layout. Keys for other layouts might not correspond exactly to the keys on a US keyboard. A plus sign (+) in a shortcut means that you need to press multiple keys at the same time. A comma sign (,) in a shortcut means that you need to press multiple keys in order. Windows macOS Web This article describes the keyboard shortcuts and some other common shortcut keys that apply while you're delivering your presentation with PowerPoint for Windows. Note To quickly find a shortcut in this article, you can use Search. Press Ctrl+F, and then type your search words. If an action that you use often does not have a shortcut key, you can record a macro. For step-by-step instructions to record a macro, refer to the section "Record a macro" in Automate tasks with the Macro Recorder to create one. During the presentation, to open a list of shortcuts, press F1. Use the arrow keys to move between the tabs in the Slide Show Help dialog box. Get the PowerPoint 2016 keyboard shortcuts in a Word document at this link: PowerPoint 2016 for Windows keyboard shortcuts . In this topic Frequently used shortcuts Control the slide show Control media in the slide show Pointer and annotations in the slide show Rehearse the presentation Maneuver in Presenter View Frequently used shortcuts This table lists the most frequently used shortcuts in PowerPoint for Windows. To do this Press Start a presentation from the beginning. F5 Start a presentation from the current slide. Shift+F5 Start the presentation in Presenter View . Alt+F5 Perform the next animation or advance to the next slide. N Enter Page down Right arrow key Down arrow key Spacebar Perform the previous animation or return to the previous slide. P Page up Left arrow key Up arrow key Backspace Hide the pointer and navigation buttons. Ctrl+H Display a blank black slide, or return to the presentation from a blank black slide. B Period (.) Display a blank white slide, or return to the presentation from a blank white slide. W Comma (,) End the presentation. Esc Top of Page Control the slide show You can use the following keyboard shortcuts while you're delivering your presentation in Slide Show (full-screen) mode, with or without Presenter View . To do this Press Go to a specific slide. Type the slide number, then press Enter Go to the next slide, if the next slide is hidden. H (not available in Presenter View ) View the All Slides dialog box. Ctrl+S Return to the first slide. Home Press and hold the Right and Left mouse buttons for two seconds Go to the last slide. End View the computer taskbar. Ctrl+T Display the context menu. Shift+F10 or the Windows Menu key Display the shortcuts menu. F1 Go to the next hotspot on the current slide. (Hotspots include hyperlinks, animation triggers, audio objects, and video objects.) Tab key Go to the previous hyperlink on the current slide. Shift+Tab Open the selected hyperlink. Enter while a hyperlink is selected Top of Page Control media in the slide show These keyboard shortcuts work with video files imported from your computer or other device. They don't work with online video files. To do this Press Change the camera source for cameo (PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 only) Alt+X Play or pause media. Alt+P Ctrl+Spacebar Stop media playback. Alt+Q Go to the next bookmark. Alt+End Go to the previous bookmark. Alt+Home Increase the sound volume. Alt+Up Decrease the sound volume. Alt+Down Mute the sound. Alt+U Move forward three seconds. Alt+Shift+Page down Move backward three seconds. Alt+Shift+Page up Move forward 0.25 seconds, then pause. Alt+Shift+Right arrow key Move backward 0.25 seconds, then pause. Alt+Shift+Left arrow key Show or hide the audio and subtitles menu. (For videos that have multiple audio tracks and/or subtitle tracks in supported formats.) Alt+J Top of Page Pointer and annotations in the slide show Use the following keyboard shortcuts to control the pointer and to use it to create annotations during your presentation. To do this Press Start the laser pointer. Ctrl+L Change the pointer to a pen. Ctrl+P Change the pointer to an arrow. Ctrl+A Change the pen pointer to an eraser. Ctrl+E Hide the arrow pointer. Ctrl+H Show or hide ink markup. Ctrl+M Erase on-screen annotations. E Top of Page Rehearse the presentation You can use these keyboard shortcuts when you are rehearsing your presentation. To do this Press Set new timings while rehearsing. T Use original timings while rehearsing. O Use mouse click to advance while rehearsing. M Re-record slide narration and timing. R Top of Page Maneuver in Presenter View You can use the following keyboard shortcuts while you're delivering your presentation using Presenter View in newer versions of PowerPoint. Presenter View lets you look at your presentation with your speaker notes on one screen (your laptop, for example), while the audience views the notes-free presentation on a different screen. When you are connected to a second display, Presenter View is shown automatically when you start the slide show. To start a presentation in Presenter View even if you have only a single display, press Alt+F5. Tip If Presenter View does not start automatically with two displays, go the Slide Show tab, select the Use Presenter View checkbox, and select the preferred monitor. To do this Press Cycle between Presenter View regions. (Buttons above the slide, buttons on the upper-right corner, and the Notes pane) F6 Cycle through tools within a Presenter View region. Tab key Scroll down one line in the Notes pane. Ctrl+Down arrow key Scroll up one line in the Notes pane. Ctrl+Up arrow key Scroll down one screenful in the Notes pane. Ctrl+Page down Scroll up one screenful in the Notes pane. Ctrl+Page up Read the next line in the Notes pane. Alt+A Read the previous line in the Notes pane. Alt+Z Read the elapsed time. (The timer starts running as soon as you start Presenter View .) Alt+W Read the next step (for example, the next slide, next animation, or end of slide show). Alt+Q Close Presenter View . Esc Top of Page See also PowerPoint help & learning Screen reader support for PowerPoint Use keyboard shortcuts to create PowerPoint presentations Basic tasks to create a presentation in PowerPoint with a screen reader Use a screen reader to explore and navigate PowerPoint This article describes the keyboard shortcuts and some other common shortcut keys that apply while you're delivering your presentation with PowerPoint for macOS. Note The settings in some versions of the Mac operating system (OS) and some utility applications might conflict with keyboard shortcuts in Microsoft 365 for Mac. For information about changing the key assignment for a keyboard shortcut, refer to Mac Help for your version of macOS or your utility application. If you don't find a keyboard shortcut here that meets your needs, you can create a custom keyboard shortcut. For instructions, go to Create a custom keyboard shortcut for Office for Mac . Many of the shortcuts that use the Ctrl key on a Windows keyboard also work with the Control key in PowerPoint for macOS. However, not all do. To quickly find a shortcut in this article, you can use the Search. Press Command+F, and then type your search words. During the presentation, to open a list of shortcuts, press forward slash (/). In this topic Frequently used shortcuts Control the slide show Control media in the slide show Pointer and annotations in the slide show Navigate the Presenter View on macOS 10.15 (Catalina) and later Frequently used shortcuts This table lists the most frequently used shortcuts in PowerPoint for macOS. To do this Press Start a presentation from the beginning. ⌘+Shift+Return Start a presentation from the current slide. ⌘+Return Start the presentation in Presenter View . Option+Return Perform the next animation or advance to the next slide. N Page down Right arrow key Down arrow key Spacebar Perform the previous animation or return to the previous slide. P Page up Left arrow key Up arrow key Delete Hide the pointer. ⌘+I Display a blank black slide, or return to the presentation from a blank black slide. B Shift+B Period (.) Display a blank white slide, or return to the presentation from a blank white slide. W Shift+W Comma (,) End the presentation. Esc Hyphen (-) ⌘+Period (.) Top of Page Control the slide show You can use the following keyboard shortcuts while you're delivering your presentation in Slide Show (full-screen) mode, with or without the Presenter View . To do this Press Go to a specific slide. Type the slide number, then press Return Go to the next slide, if the next slide is hidden. H Return to the first slide. Function+Left arrow key Go to the last slide. Function+Right arrow key Display the shortcut menu. Control+Mouse click Go to the next hotspot on the current slide. (Hotspots include hyperlinks, animation triggers, audio objects, and video objects.) Tab key Go to the previous hyperlink on the current slide. Shift+Tab Open the selected hyperlink. Return while a hyperlink is selected Top of Page Control media in the slide show Use the following keyboard shortcuts to control media during a presentation. To do this Press Change the camera source for cameo (PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac only) Option+X Top of Page Pointer and annotations in the slide show Use the following keyboard shortcuts to control the pointer and to use it to create annotations during your presentation. To do this Press Start the laser pointer. ⌘+L Change the pointer to a pen. ⌘+P Change the pointer to an arrow. ⌘+A Hide the pointer. ⌘+I Hide the pointer on mouse move. Control+H Show the pointer on mouse move. ⌘+U Erase on-screen annotations. Shift+E Top of Page Navigate the Presenter View on macOS 10.15 (Catalina) and later You can use the following keyboard shortcuts while you're delivering your presentation using the Presenter View on macOS 10.15 (Catalina) and later, and when the keyboard control navigation is turned on. For instructions, refer to Turn on the keyboard control navigation . Use the shortcuts in the table below to move in the Presenter View in PowerPoint for macOS. To do this Press Start the presentation in the Presenter View . Option+Return Move the focus to the next control. Tab key Move the focus to the previous control. Shift+Tab Activate the control in focus. Spacebar In the Notes Pane , move the focus to the next control (pressing the Tab key inserts a tab character). Control+Tab Skip ahead in your presentation You can use your keyboard to skip ahead several slides without the audience seeing the slides as you transition to the new slide. Press the Tab key until you reach the Slide Navigator control (filmstrip). Press and hold down the Option key and press the Left or Right arrow key repeatedly until you find the slide you want to skip to. Release the Option key to move to the slide you want to skip to. Turn on the keyboard control navigation To use your keyboard to move between and activate controls on your Mac, turn on the keyboard control navigation. If you're not using VoiceOver, on your computer, select System Preferences > Keyboard > Shortcuts , and select the Use keyboard navigation to move focus between controls checkbox. If you're using VoiceOver, the control navigation should be on by default. To check the setting, do the following: On your computer, press Control+Option+M to access the Apple menu bar item. To open the Apple menu, press Control+Option+Spacebar. Press Control+Option+Down arrow key until you hear "System preferences ellipses," and then press Control+Option+Spacebar. The System Preferences window opens. The focus is in the Search text box. Type Keyboard , and then press Return. The Keyboard dialog box opens. Press Control+Option+Right arrow key until you hear "Shortcuts tab," and then press Control+Option+Spacebar. Press Control+Option+Right arrow key until you hear: "Use keyboard navigation to move focus between controls." VoiceOver also announces if the option is selected or unselected. To toggle the option on or off, press Control+Option+Spacebar. To close the Keyboard dialog box, press Command+W. Top of Page See also PowerPoint help & learning Screen reader support for PowerPoint Use keyboard shortcuts to create PowerPoint presentations Basic tasks to create a presentation in PowerPoint with a screen reader Use a screen reader to explore and navigate PowerPoint This article describes the keyboard shortcuts that apply while you're delivering your presentation with PowerPoint for the web. Note If you use Narrator with the Windows 10 Fall Creators Update, you have to turn off scan mode in order to edit documents, spreadsheets, or presentations with Microsoft 365 for the web. For more information, refer to Turn off virtual or browse mode in screen readers in Windows 10 Fall Creators Update . To quickly find a shortcut in this article, you can use Search. Press Ctrl+F, and then type your search words. When you use PowerPoint for the web, we recommend that you use Microsoft Edge as your web browser. Because PowerPoint for the web runs in your web browser, the keyboard shortcuts are different from those in the desktop program. For example, you'll use Ctrl+F6 instead of F6 for jumping in and out of the commands. Also, common shortcuts like F1 (Help) and Ctrl+O (Open) apply to the web browser – not PowerPoint for the web. Control the slide show This table lists the keyboard shortcuts you can use to control the slide show. To do this Windows Mac Start a presentation from the beginning. Ctrl+F5 ⌘+Shift+Return Start a presentation from the current slide. Shift+Ctrl+F5 ⌘+Shift+F5 Perform the next animation or advance to the next slide. N Enter Page down Right arrow key Down arrow key Spacebar N Return Page down Right arrow key Down arrow key Spacebar Perform the previous animation or return to the previous slide. P Page up Left arrow key Up arrow key Backspace P Page up Left arrow key Up arrow key Delete End the presentation. Esc Esc See also PowerPoint help & learning Get started with PowerPoint for the web Screen reader support for PowerPoint Use keyboard shortcuts to create PowerPoint presentations Basic tasks to create a presentation in PowerPoint with a screen reader Use a screen reader to explore and navigate PowerPoint Technical support for customers with disabilities Microsoft wants to provide the best possible experience for all our customers. If you have a disability or questions related to accessibility, please contact the Microsoft Disability Answer Desk for technical assistance. The Disability Answer Desk support team is trained in using many popular assistive technologies and can offer assistance in English, Spanish, French, and American Sign Language. Please go to the Microsoft Disability Answer Desk site to find out the contact details for your region. If you are a government, commercial, or enterprise user, please contact the enterprise Disability Answer Desk . Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026