https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/graphics-visuals/align-or-arrange-objects

Align or arrange objects | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Align or arrange objects Applies To Excel for Microsoft 365 Word for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 Excel for Microsoft 365 for Mac Word for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac Excel 2024 Word 2024 PowerPoint 2024 Excel 2024 for Mac Word 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 for Mac Excel 2021 Word 2021 PowerPoint 2021 Excel 2021 for Mac Word 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 for Mac Get help with Copilot Guide me in setting up align or arrange objects. What is Align pictures, shapes, OfficeArt and other objects? Tell me about tips and suggestions for Align pictures In Office programs, you can quickly align objects (such as pictures, shapes, text boxes, SmartArt graphics, and WordArt. Windows macOS Web Align multiple objects Select the first object, and then press and hold Ctrl while you select the other objects. Do one of the following: To align a picture, select the Picture Format tab. To align a shape, text box, or WordArt, select the Shape Format tab. In the Arrange group, select Align , and then choose one of these commands from the menu: Option Description Align Left Aligns objects along their left edges Align Center Aligns objects vertically through their centers. Align Right Aligns objects along their right edges Align Top Aligns objects along their top edges Align Middle Aligns objects horizontally through their middles. Align Bottom Aligns objects along their bottom edges Important If the Align options are unavailable, you may only have a single item selected. Select one, or more, additional items, and then you should be able to continue. Arrange objects equal distances from each other Select at least three objects that you want to arrange equal distances from each other. To choose multiple objects, select the first object, and then press and hold Ctrl while you select the other objects. To select objects that are hidden, stacked, or behind text, do the following: On the Home tab, choose Select , pick Select Objects , and then draw a box over the objects. Do one of the following: To arrange pictures equally, select the Picture Format tab. To arrange a group with shapes, text boxes, or WordArt equally, select the Shape Format tab. In the Arrange group, select Align , and then do one of the following: To arrange the objects horizontally, select Distribute Horizontally . To arrange the objects vertically, select Distribute Vertically . Word Align an object with other objects Hold down Shift, select the objects that you want to align. On the Shape Format tab, select Arrange , choose Align and select Align Selected Objects if not already selected Select Arrange Align again and choose the alignment that you want. Align an object on the page Hold down Shift, and select the objects to align. On the Shape Format tab, select Arrange , choose Align and select Align to Page . Select Arrange and Align , again, and then choose the alignment that you want. Align objects on a grid Use a grid to more easily align objects. Or, you can snap your objects to a grid line that runs through the vertical edges, horizontal edges, and center of other objects. The line becomes visible only when you drag an object near another object. To turn on the grid option. On the Word menu, select Preferences . Select Edit in the Word Preferences pane. Select Grid Options , and choose the type of snap-to behavior that you want: To snap objects to a grid, select To grid in Print Layout View under Snap Objects. To snap objects to other objects, select To other objects under Snap Objects. (Optional) You can set other grid settings such as spacing. To show the gridlines, under Show Grid , select Display gridlines on screen . Note You can also toggle the gridlines on and off by selecting or clearing the Gridlines check box on the View tab or View menu. Click OK . After you choose a grid option, align your objects as follows. Hold down Shift, select the objects to align, and then select the Shape Format tab. select Arrange , choose Align and pick an alignment option. With the gridlines displayed, you see that the objects are aligned on the grid. Tip If you set the preference to align to grid but want to suspend this setting while you move an object, hold down ⌘ command as you drag the object. PowerPoint Align an object with other objects Hold down Shift, select the objects that you want to align. On the Shape Format tab, choose Align and select Align Selected Objects if not already selected. If Align Selected Objects is not available, in the presentation, select at least two objects. The Align Selected Objects option becomes enabled. Select Align , and then choose the alignment that you want. Align an object on the slide Hold down Shift, select the objects that you want to align. On the Shape Format tab, choose Align and select Align to Slide . Click Align , and then click the alignment that you want. Turn on snap to grid To more easily align objects, you can snap your objects to a grid line that runs through the vertical edges, horizontal edges, and centers of other objects. The line becomes visible only when you drag an object near another object. On the PowerPoint menu, select Preferences . Select View and choose Snap objects to Grid . Align objects by using Smart Guides Smart Guides — lines that run through the center of other objects and the center of the slide — appear when you drag an object. You can use Smart Guides to align an object relative to another object. Or, you can align an object relative to the center of a slide. On the View menu select Grid and Guides and choose Smart Guides . Select the object that you want to align. Tip To select multiple objects, hold down Shift, and then select the objects that you want. Drag the object near another object that you want to align it with, or drag the object near the center of the page. Note To temporarily hide Dynamic Guides, hold down ⌘ command while you drag the object. Use the grid lines that appear to obtain the alignment that you want. Excel Align an object with other objects Hold down Shift, select the objects that you want to align. On the Shape Format tab, select Align and then choose the alignment that you want. Aligning shapes and pictures features in Word for the web and Excel for the web are limited. Use the desktop version for more flexibility. Arrange shapes in Word for the Web Move a shape in front or behind other objects on the slide. Double-click the shapes you want to arrange. On the Shape tab, select Arrange . On the Arrange menu, select how you'd like to arrange the shape. Arrange shapes in Excel for the Web Move a shape in front or behind other objects on the slide. Select the shape you want to arrange. On the Shape or Picture tab, select Bring Forward or Send Backward . Do any of the following: On the dropdown menu for Bring Forward , select Bring Forward to move one layer at a time, or select Bring To Front . On the dropdown menu for Send Backward , select Send Backward to move one layer at a time, or select Send To Back . Arrange objects in PowerPoint for the Web Move a shape in front or behind other objects on the slide. Press and hold Ctrl and select each of the shapes or pictures you want to arrange. On the Shape or Picture tab, select Bring Forward or Send Backward . Do any of the following: On the dropdown menu for Bring Forward , select Bring Forward to move one layer at a time, or choose Bring To Front . On the dropdown menu for Send Backward , select Send Backward to move one layer at a time, or choose Send To Back . Align objects in PowerPoint for the Web Press and hold Ctrl and select each of the shapes or pictures you want to arrange. On the Shape or Picture tab, select Align . On the Align menu, choose the alignment that you want. Tip Select Align and choose Align to Slide or Align Selected Objects before choosing other alignments for different orientations. See also Move, rotate, or group a picture, text box, or other object Resize an object Change the margins between text and the edge of a text box or shape Change the margins between text and the edge of a text box or shape in Office for macOS Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026