https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/graphics-visuals/crop-a-picture-to-fit-in-a-shape

Crop a picture to fit in a shape | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Crop a picture to fit in a shape Applies To Excel for Microsoft 365 Word for Microsoft 365 Outlook for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 Excel for Microsoft 365 for Mac Word for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac Excel 2024 Word 2024 Outlook 2024 PowerPoint 2024 Excel 2024 for Mac Word 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 for Mac Excel 2021 Word 2021 Outlook 2021 PowerPoint 2021 Excel 2021 for Mac Word 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 for Mac Excel 2019 Word 2019 Outlook 2019 PowerPoint 2019 Excel 2016 Word 2016 Outlook 2016 PowerPoint 2016 Get help with Copilot How do I add a picture to a shape? How do I format a shape to fit an image? Simplify cropping a picture to fit a shape. With Microsoft PowerPoint, Word, Outlook, or Excel, you can easily change the outline of a photo by turning it into a shape like a circle or a rounded rectangle. The Crop to Shape feature provides options for cropping an image to a specific shape or starting with a shape and then inserting an image within it. Windows macOS Web This article applies to steps you can use to crop images in different Microsoft 365 applications. You can use the same steps in PowerPoint, Word, Outlook, or Excel Crop an image to a shape When you crop a picture to a certain shape, it'll change size to match that shape while keeping its proportions the same. Add an image to your Microsoft 365 file, like a PowerPoint presentation or Word document, by selecting Insert from the ribbon > Picture . There'll be different options for you to choose where to get your image. Tip If you want to crop the same picture into multiple shapes, first create copies of the original picture. Then, crop each copy into the shape you want. After inserting the image, you'll see the Picture Format tab in the ribbon. You can select multiple pictures and crop them all at the same time. However, all the pictures will be in the same shape. Note Multi-cropping in Word can be difficult, because you can't select multiple pictures that have the default In Line with Text layout option. In the ribbon, go to Picture Format and select the arrow under Crop . Customize your image: To change the shape, select Crop Shape . The shape is immediately applied to your image. If you want to fill the entire shape with the picture, select Crop > Fill . Some outer edges of the picture might be cropped away. There won't be any empty space at the margins of the shape. To make the entire picture fit within the shape, select Crop > Fit . There might be some empty space at the margins of the shape. Note When you select Fill or Fit , black crop handles appear on the edges and corners of the picture. Select the picture and drag it it to adjust the position of the picture within the frame. This can help you center the most important part of the picture within the shape. Crop the margins of the image by dragging the black crop handles inward. If you drag one of the corner handles, it crops two adjacent sides at the same time. To crop evenly on two parallel sides at the same time, hold the Ctrl key and drag inwards on the side cropping handle. Select Crop when you're done. Start with a shape and add an image A picture can be used to fill a shape, and the shape can then be edited or cropped. Add a picture to a shape Add a shape to your Microsoft 365 file by selecting Insert from the ribbon > Shapes . Then select a shape from the gallery. For more info, see Add shapes . After inserting the image, you'll see the Shape Format tab in the ribbon. Go to Shape Format , and select Shape Fill > Picture . Select your image. There'll be different options for you to choose where to get your image. After you select the image, it's automatically added to the shape. Resize the shape To change the filled shape's dimensions while maintaining its basic format, select it and drag any of the sizing handles. How to fit a picture in a shape If your picture is skewed, cut off, or doesn't fill the shape the way you want, you can fine-tune it with the Fit and Fill tools on the Crop menu. Select the shape that you want to edit in your Microsoft 365 file. Then go to Picture Format on the ribbon. Select the arrow under Crop to customize your shape. To resize the picture so the entire picture area is filled, select Crop > Fill . To resize the picture so it shows in the frame and keeps its original shape, select Crop > Fit . Adjust the crop area by using the cropping handles. See Crop a picture . When you're finished, press Esc or select anywhere outside the picture to submit changes. Use edit points to edit or crop a shape While cropping tools are not available for shapes, you can use the Edit Points tool to customize a shape. Select the shape that you want to edit in your Microsoft 365 file. Select Shape Format , and then select Edit Shape at the upper left corner > Edit Points . Drag the black dots (vertex points) until the shape looks the way you want. To delete a vertex point, hold Ctrl and select it. To add a vertex point, hold Ctrl while selecting anywhere on the shape's perimeter that doesn't already have a vertex point. See Also Crop a picture in Microsoft 365 Cut out or cover part of a picture This article applies to steps you can use to crop images in different Microsoft 365 applications. You can use the same steps in PowerPoint, Word, Outlook, or Excel Crop an image to a shape When you crop a picture to a certain shape, it'll change size to match that shape while keeping its proportions the same. If you want to crop the same picture to more than one shape, make copies of the picture and crop each to the desired shape individually. Add an image to your Microsoft 365 file like a PowerPoint presentation or Word document by selecting Insert > Pictures . After inserting the image, you'll see the Picture Format tab in the ribbon. On the Picture Format tab, select the arrow next to Crop . Go to Crop to Shape and then select the shape from the available options. The shape is immediately applied to the image. Adjust the shape using the cropping handles. Select Crop and black crop handles appear on the edges and corners of the picture. To crop the image, drag one of the crop handles inward. If you drag one of the corner handles, it crops two adjacent sides at the same time. How to fit or fill a picture in shape After you have added a picture to a shape, you can choose how the picture fits in the shape by using the Fit and Fill tools for fine-tuning. Select the shape you want to edit in your Microsoft 365 file. Then go to Picture Format tab on the ribbon > Crop . Select the arrow under Crop to customize your shape. To resize the picture so the entire picture area is filled, select Crop > Fill . To resize the picture so it shows in the frame and keeps its original shape, select Crop > Fit . When you're finished, select anywhere outside the picture to submit changes. Learn how to crop an image into a shape in Microsoft Office applications, like Word and PowerPoint . How to fit a picture inside a shape in Word for the web The web version of Word for the web doesn't include the crop-to-shape capability found in the desktop application. However, you can still use quick Picture Styles to apply some basic shapes to a picture. Add an image to your Word for the web document by selecting Insert from the ribbon > Picture . There'll be different options for you to choose where to get your image. After inserting the image, you'll see the Picture tab in the ribbon. Then go to the Picture Styles . Select a shape and apply it to your picture. You can adjust the crop area by using the cropping handles. Crop a picture to a shape in PowerPoint Add an image to your PowerPoint presentation by selecting Insert from the ribbon > Pictures . There'll be different options for you to choose where to get your image. After inserting the image, you'll see the Picture tab in the ribbon. Select the arrow next to Crop . Select Crop to Shape , to apply a shape to the border of the picture. Crop the margins of the picture, select Crop > More Crop Options , then drag the black crop handles inward. If you drag one of the corner handles, it crops two adjacent sides at the same time. Select the Crop button or press Esc to save changes. Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026