https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/graphics-visuals/change-the-size-of-a-picture-shape-text-box-or-wordart

Change the size of a picture, shape, text box, or WordArt | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Change the size of a picture, shape, text box, or WordArt Applies To Excel for Microsoft 365 Outlook for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 Project Online Desktop Client Excel for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac Excel 2024 Outlook 2024 PowerPoint 2024 Project Professional 2024 Project Standard 2024 Excel 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 for Mac Excel 2021 Outlook 2021 PowerPoint 2021 Project Professional 2021 Project Standard 2021 Excel 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 for Mac Excel 2019 Outlook 2019 PowerPoint 2019 Project Professional 2019 Project Standard 2019 Excel 2016 Outlook 2016 PowerPoint 2016 Project Professional 2016 Project Standard 2016 Get help with Copilot Tell me how to resize to an exact height and width. Show me how rotate or flip a text box, shape. Change the size of a picture, shape, text box, or WordArt You can easily resize pictures, text boxes, shapes, and WordArt in your Office file. You can also remove unwanted portions of a picture by cropping it . Newer Windows versions Newer Mac versions Web If you want to stretch, shrink, or just change the size of a picture (or shape), use the sizing handles or for more precise control, the Size options on the Picture Tools Format tab or the Drawing Tools Format tab. Microsoft 365 subscribers who have a touch screen may use a finger or a digital stylus to grab a sizing handle. Click the dropdown control below for more details. What do you want to do? Resize a picture, shape, WordArt, or other object Click the picture, shape, WordArt, or other object (such as a chart) that you want to resize. To increase or decrease the size in one or more directions, drag a sizing handle away from or toward the center, while doing one of the following: To keep the center in the same place, press and hold Ctrl while you drag the sizing handle. To maintain the proportions, press and hold Shift while you drag a corner sizing handle. To both maintain the proportions and keep the center in the same place, press and hold both Ctrl and Shift while you drag a corner sizing handle. Note Resizing a WordArt object in this way only resizes the box the WordArt is in. The actual WordArt text behaves just like any other text. If you want to resize it simply select the text you want to resize and change the font size on the Home tab of the ribbon. Resize an item to an exact height and width Click to select the picture, shape, WordArt, or other object that you want to precisely resize. To resize multiple objects at the same time, press and hold Ctrl while selecting each object. Depending on the type of object you've selected, do one of the following: To resize a picture, on the Picture Tools Format tab, in the Size group, enter the new measurements into the Height and Width boxes. To resize a shape or other object, on the Drawing Tools Format tab, in the Size group, enter the measurements you want into the Height and Width boxes. Note If your screen size is smaller, you might need to click the down arrow in the Size group to see the Height and Width boxes. If you're not able to change the height and width independently, you'll need to unlock the aspect ratio: Click the dialog box launcher in the bottom right corner of the Size group. In the format pane or dialog box that appears, clear the Lock aspect ratio check box. Resize to an exact proportion Click the picture, shape, WordArt, or other object that you want to resize. To resize multiple objects at the same time, press and hold Ctrl while selecting each object. Do one of the following: To resize a picture, on the Picture Tools Format tab, in the Size group, click the dialog box launcher . To resize a shape or other object, on the Drawing Tools Format tab, in the Size group, click the dialog box launcher . Note If your screen size is smaller, you might need to click the down arrow in the Size group to see the dialog box launcher. In the format pane or dialog box that appears, do one of the following: To maintain the original proportion, select the Lock aspect ration check box and enter a Scale percentage for Height or Width . To resize to a different proportion, clear the Lock aspect ratio check box and enter Scale percentages for Height and Width . See Also Insert WordArt Move or resize a table in PowerPoint Reduce attachment size to send large files with Outlook Crop a picture Reduce the file size of a picture If you want to stretch, shrink, or just change the size of a picture (or shape), use the sizing handles. For more precise control, you can use the Size options on the Format tab. Quickly resize a picture, shape, WordArt, or other object Click the picture, shape, or WordArt you want to resize. To increase or decrease the size in one or more directions, drag a sizing handle away from or toward the center, while doing one of the following: To keep the object's center in the same place, press and hold the OPTION key while you drag the sizing handle. To maintain an object's proportions while resizing it, press and hold the Shift key while you drag a corner sizing handle. Resize to an exact height and width Click the picture, shape, or WordArt you want to precisely resize. Click the Picture Format or Shape Format tab, and then make sure the Lock aspect ratio check box is cleared. Do one of the following: To resize a picture, on the Picture Format tab, enter the measurements you want in the Height and Width boxes. To resize a shape or WordArt, on the Shape Format tab, enter the measurements you want in the Height and Width boxes. Resize to an exact proportion using percentages Click the picture, shape, or WordArt you want to resize. Do one of the following: To resize a picture, click the Picture Format tab, click Position > More Layout Options . To resize a shape or WordArt, on the Shape Format tab, click Position > More Layout Options . Click the Size tab, and under Scale , make sure the Lock aspect ratio check box is clear. Enter percentages you want for Height and Width . Click OK when finished. Tip To apply the same height and width to different objects, select all objects you want to have the same dimensions, and then enter the dimensions in the Height and Width boxes. To select multiple objects, click the first object, and then press and hold SHIFT while you click the other objects. If you want to stretch, shrink, or just change the size of a picture (or shape), use the sizing handles. On a touch screen, you may use a finger or a digital stylus to grab a handle. For more precise control, if you have a desktop version of Excel or PowerPoint, you can use the Size options on the Picture Tools Format tab or the Drawing Tools Format tab. Click the dropdown control below for more details. What do you want to do? Resize a picture, shape, WordArt, or other object Click the picture, shape, WordArt, or other object (such as a chart) that you want to resize. To increase or decrease the size in one or more directions, drag a sizing handle away from or toward the center, while doing one of the following: To keep the center in the same place, press and hold Ctrl while you drag the sizing handle. To maintain the proportions, press and hold Shift while you drag a corner sizing handle. To both maintain the proportions and keep the center in the same place, press and hold both Ctrl and Shift while you drag a corner sizing handle. Note Resizing a WordArt object in this way only resizes the box the WordArt is in. The actual WordArt text behaves just like any other text. If you want to resize it simply select the text you want to resize and change the font size on the Home tab of the ribbon. Resize an item to an exact height and width For this procedure, you must have a desktop version of Excel or PowerPoint. Click Edit in <PowerPoint or Excel> . Click the picture, shape, WordArt, or other object that you want to precisely resize. To resize multiple objects at the same time, press and hold Ctrl while selecting each object. Depending on the type of object you've selected, do one of the following: To resize a picture, on the Picture Tools Format tab, in the Size group, enter the new measurements into the Height and Width boxes. To resize a shape or other object, on the Drawing Tools Format tab, in the Size group, enter the measurements you want into the Height and Width boxes. Note If your screen size is smaller, you might need to click the down arrow in the Size group to see the Height and Width boxes. If you're not able to change the height and width independently, you'll need to unlock the aspect ratio: Click the dialog box launcher in the bottom right corner of the Size group. In the format pane or dialog box that appears, clear the Lock aspect ratio check box. Resize to an exact proportion For this procedure, you must have a desktop version of Excel or PowerPoint. Click Edit in <PowerPoint or Excel> . Click the picture, shape, WordArt, or other object that you want to precisely resize. To resize multiple objects at the same time, press and hold Ctrl while selecting each object. Do one of the following: To resize a picture, on the Picture Tools Format tab, in the Size group, click the dialog box launcher . To resize a shape or other object, on the Drawing Tools Format tab, in the Size group, click the dialog box launcher . Note If your screen size is smaller, you might need to click the down arrow in the Size group to see the dialog box launcher. In the format pane or dialog box that appears, do one of the following: To maintain the original proportion, select the Lock aspect ration check box and enter a Scale percentage for Height or Width . To resize to a different proportion, clear the Lock aspect ratio check box and enter Scale percentages for Height and Width . Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026