https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/remove-the-background-of-a-picture-in-office-c0819a62-6844-4190-8d67-6fb1713a12bf

Remove the background of a picture in Office | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Remove the background of a picture in Office Applies To Excel for Microsoft 365 Word for Microsoft 365 Outlook for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 Project Online Desktop Client Excel for Microsoft 365 for Mac Word for Microsoft 365 for Mac Outlook for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac Excel 2024 Outlook 2024 PowerPoint 2024 Project Professional 2024 Project Standard 2024 Word 2024 for Mac Outlook 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 for Mac Excel 2021 Word 2021 Outlook 2021 PowerPoint 2021 Project Professional 2021 Project Standard 2021 Word 2021 for Mac Outlook 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 for Mac Get help with Copilot Help me remove the background of a picture Show me how I need help with cut out part of a picture. For an image in an Office file, you can remove the background from it to accentuate the subject or to remove distracting details. As described below, you start with the automatic background removal. Then, if necessary, you can draw lines to indicate areas to keep and remove. For vector graphic files—such as Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG), Adobe Illustrator Graphics (AI), Windows Metafile Format (WMF), and Vector Drawing File (DRW)—background removal isn't possible, so in those cases the Remove Background option is grayed out. Original picture Same picture with the background removed Windows macOS Select the picture that you want to remove the background from. On the toolbar, select Picture Format > Remove Background , or Format > Remove Background . If you don't see Remove Background , make sure you have selected a picture. You might have to double-click the picture to select it and open the Picture Format tab. The default background area will be colored magenta to mark it for removal, while the foreground will retain its natural coloring. If the default area isn't correct, go to Background Removal and do one or both of the following: If parts of the picture that you want to keep are magenta (marked for removal), select Mark Areas to Keep and use the free-form drawing pencil to mark the areas on the picture that you want to keep. To remove more parts of the picture, select Mark Areas to Remove and use the drawing pencil to mark those areas. When you're done, select Keep Changes or Discard All Changes . To save the image in a separate file for later use, right-click the image and select Save as Picture . You can apply an artistic effect or add picture effects to the picture remaining after you've removed the background. Another option for removing the background If your image isn't stored in an Office file, you can use a similar process with Windows Paint 3D or Microsoft Designer. For details, see Remove the background of a photo with Paint 3D or Image background remover . Select the picture. On the Picture Format tab of the ribbon, select Remove Background . If you don't see Remove Background or the Picture Format tab, make sure that you've selected a picture. You might have to double-click the picture to select it and open the Picture Format tab. The default background area is colored magenta to mark it for removal, while the foreground retains its natural coloring. If the default area isn't correct, under Picture Tools , on the Background Removal tab, do one or both of the following: Select Mark Areas to Keep and use the free-form drawing pencil to mark the areas on the picture that you want to keep. Select Mark Areas to Remove and use the drawing pencil to mark those areas to remove. When you're done, select Keep Changes or Discard All Changes . To save the image in a separate file for later use, right-click the image and select Save as Picture . Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026