https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/group-or-ungroup-shapes-pictures-or-other-objects-a7374c35-20fe-4e0a-9637-7de7d844724b

Group or ungroup shapes, pictures, or other objects | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Group or ungroup shapes, pictures, or other objects Applies To Excel for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 Excel for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac Excel 2024 PowerPoint 2024 Excel 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 for Mac Excel 2021 PowerPoint 2021 Excel 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 for Mac Get help with Copilot Tell me about group or ungroup shapes, pictures Can you explain group shapes, pictures, or other objects? You can group shapes, pictures, or other objects (but not text boxes). Grouping lets you rotate, flip, move, or resize all shapes or objects at the same time as though they were a single shape or object. The attributes of all of the shapes in a group can be changed at one time, such as adding a shape fill or effect , or an effect to a picture . You can ungroup a group of shapes at any time and then regroup them later. Windows macOS Web Group shapes, pictures, or other objects Press and hold Ctrl while you select the shapes, pictures, or other objects to group. More than one shape, picture or object must be selected in order to enable the Group button. Tip For help selecting a shape or picture, see Select a shape or other object . On the Shape Format or the Picture Format tab, select Group and choose Group again. Tip To group multiple SVG icons together you have to convert them to shapes first. For more information on converting them to shapes, see: Convert an SVG image to an Office shape . After you make your group, you can still work with a single item in the group. Select the group, and then choose the item to select it. The Shape Format or Picture Format tabs only appear on the ribbon when you have a shape or a picture selected. Ungroup shapes, pictures, or other objects Select the group that you want to ungroup. On the Shape Format or the Picture Format tab, select Group and choose Ungroup . Regroup pictures, shapes, or other objects Select any one of the shapes, pictures, or objects that were previously in a group. On the Shape Format or the Picture Format tab, select Group and choose Regroup. Note If you converted a SmartArt graphic to individual shapes, you can't convert them back to a SmartArt graphic or regroup them. The Group button is unavailable Here are some reasons why the Group button is grayed out and the things you can do to get it back. Only one shape or picture is selected. Make sure you have multiple shapes or pictures selected. You can't use the Group tool with SVG icons, so those don't count. To group SVG icons together you have to convert them to shapes first. For more information on converting them to shapes, see: Convert an SVG image to an Office shape . Your selection includes a table, worksheet, or GIF image. The Group button isn't available if any of these objects is selected. If you are using PowerPoint, you might have tried to group something with the title placeholder text ("Click to add title") or with the content placeholder ("Click to add text"). In the above example, the blue square and the green circle can be grouped together. But the shapes cannot be grouped with the placeholder text. To get the Group button back, move the shape, picture, or object to another location on your slide outside of the placeholder text, or remove the placeholder from the things you want to group. Note If none of this enables the Group button for you, search the Answers forum or post your questions there . Group shapes, pictures, or other objects Press and hold command while you use the mouse or touchpad to select the shapes, pictures, or other objects that you want to group. On the Shape Format or the Picture Format tab, select Group and choose Group again. Note If you don't see the Shape Format and Picture Format tabs be sure at least one shape or a picture is selected. Microsoft 365 may display one or both of these tabs, depending on the types of objects that are currently selected in a page. If Group isn't visible on the ribbon, select Arrange to display it. After you make a group of objects, you can still work with an individual item in the group by selecting the group, and then selecting the item to select it. Note If the Group button is unavailable, verify that you have more than one object selected. If you can't select an additional object, verify that none of the objects that you want to add to the group has Word Wrap set to In Line with Text . Ungroup shapes, pictures, or other objects You might want to move a group but leave one shape or picture behind, or you might need to make extensive changes to one shape without changing the other shapes in the group. To do this, you first dissolve, or ungroup , the grouping of objects. Select the group that has the object or objects that you want to separate from the others. On the Shape Format tab or the Picture Format tab, select Group and choose Ungroup . If Group isn't visible on the ribbon, select Arrange to display it. Microsoft 365 dissolves the group, leaving the individual objects in their current location and selected. Regroup pictures, shapes, or other objects Select any one of the shapes, pictures, or objects that were previously in a group. On the Shape Format tab or the Picture Format tab, select Group and choose Regroup . Note If you converted a SmartArt graphic to individual shapes, you can't convert them back to a SmartArt graphic or regroup them. The Group button is unavailable Here are some reasons why the Group button is grayed out and the things you can do to get it back. Only one shape or picture is selected. Make sure you have multiple shapes or pictures selected. You can't use the Group tool with SVG icons, so those don't count. Your selection includes a table, worksheet, or GIF image. The Group button isn't available if any of these objects is selected. If you are using PowerPoint, you might have tried to group something with the title placeholder text ("Click to add title") or with the content placeholder ("Click to add text"). In the above example, the blue square and the green circle can be grouped together. But the shapes cannot be grouped with the placeholder text. To get the Group button back, move the shape, picture, or object to another location on your slide outside of the placeholder text, or remove the placeholder from the things you want to group. Note If none of this enables the Group button for you, search the Answers forum or post your questions there . Group shapes, pictures, or other objects Press and hold Ctrl while you select shapes, pictures, or other objects to group, or press Ctrl+A to choose all objects. Select Arrange (on simplified ribbon) and choose Group . Note More than one shape, picture or object must be selected in order to enable the Group button. Ungroup shapes, pictures, or other objects Select a group of shapes, pictures, or other objects. On the Shape tab, select Arrange (on simplified ribbon) and choose Ungroup . Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026