ADRESA: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/add-bullets-or-numbers-to-text-a6f1b87e-fca8-47da-ade9-5d99b7f41f04
Add bullets or numbers to text | Microsoft Support
Skip to main content
Microsoft
Support
Support
Support
Home
Microsoft 365
Office
Products
Microsoft 365
Outlook
Microsoft Teams
OneDrive
Microsoft Copilot
OneNote
Windows
more ...
Devices
Surface
PC Accessories
Xbox
PC Gaming
HoloLens
Surface Hub
Hardware warranties
Account & billing
Resources
Community forums
Microsoft 365 Admins
Developer
Education
Report a support scam
Product safety
More
Buy Microsoft 365
All Microsoft
Global
Microsoft 365
Azure
Copilot
Windows
Surface
XBOX
Deals
Small Business
Support
Software
Software
Windows Apps
Outlook
OneDrive
Microsoft Teams
OneNote
Microsoft Edge
Moving from Skype to Teams
PCs & Devices
PCs & Devices
Computers
Shop XBOX
Accessories
VR & mixed reality
Certified Refurbished
Trade-in for cash
Entertainment
Entertainment
XBOX Game Pass Ultimate
PC Game Pass
XBOX games
PC games
Business
Business
Microsoft AI
Microsoft Security
Dynamics 365
Microsoft 365 for business
Microsoft Power Platform
Windows 365
Small Business
Digital Sovereignty
Developer & IT
Developer & IT
Azure
Microsoft Developer
Microsoft Learn
Support for AI marketplace apps
Microsoft Tech Community
Microsoft Marketplace
Software companies
Visual Studio
Other
Other
Microsoft Rewards
Free downloads & security
Education
Gift cards
Licensing
Unlocked stories
View Sitemap
Search
Search for help
No results
Cancel
Sign in
Sign in with Microsoft
Sign in or create an account.
Hello,
Select a different account.
You have multiple accounts
Choose the account you want to sign in with.
Add bullets or numbers to text
Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016
Get help with Copilot
Can you show me how to remove bullets and numbering?
How should I change text alignment, indentation?
Add bullets or numbers to text for me.
You can use bulleted or numbered lists to help organize your text or show a sequential process in your PowerPoint presentation.
Newer Windows versions
Newer Mac versions
Web
On the View tab, in the Presentation Views group, click Normal .
On the left side of the PowerPoint window, click a slide thumbnail that you want to add bulleted or numbered text to.
On the slide, select the lines of text in a text placeholder or table that you want to add bullets or numbering to.
On the Home tab, in the Paragraph group, click Bullets
or Numbering
.
Note
To change all lines of text, select the outline of the text object, and then apply the bullet or numbering.
To increase or decrease the indent and change the spacing between a bullet or number and the text, see How do I increase or decrease the space between a bullet or number and the text in a line? in this article.
Change the color and style of bullets, and understand the limitations
You can change the color, style, or size of the bullets or numbers in your PowerPoint presentation, and you can change the number you want to start from.
To change one bullet or number, place the cursor at the start of the line that you want to change. To change multiple bullets or numbers, select the text in all of the bullets or numbers that you want to change.
Click Home , click the arrow next to either the Bullets or Numbering button, and then click Bullets and Numbering .
Tip
To quickly change the style of a bulleted or numbered list, just click the style you want in the list that appears when you click the arrow next to Bullets or Numbering .
In the Bullets and Numbering box, on either the Bulleted tab or the Numbered tab (depending on what kind of list you’re working with), pick the style changes that you want to make, such as:
Bullet or number style
Color
Size (to resize a bullet or number so it’s a specific size in relation to your text, click Size , and enter a percentage)
Starting number (on the Numbered tab, enter the number you want in the Start at box)
Pictures (to use a picture as a bullet, on the Bulleted tab, click Picture , and scroll to find a picture)
Symbols (to temporarily add a character from the symbol list to the Bulleted tab, on the Bulleted tab, click Customize , click a symbol, and then click OK . You can apply the symbol to your slides from the style lists)
SmartArt graphics (to convert an existing bulleted or numbered list to a SmartArt graphic , click Home > Convert to SmartArt )
Tip
To change the format of just one or some of the bullet or number styles in a list, such as the color or size, place the cursor at the start of the line that you want to change before opening the Bullets and Numbering box. Your changes will apply only to the selected lines.
To adjust the alignment of items in a list, see How do I increase or decrease the space between a bullet or number and the text in a line? in this article.
Apply custom styles to multiple slides
The best way to apply custom list styles to all slides in your presentation is to modify the slide master. Any list customization you make to the slide master will be saved and applied to all your slides. You can also edit or create one or more slide layouts that include your customized list styles, and add these layouts to your presentation wherever you want to use your list styles.
List limitations in PowerPoint
There are a few things you can't do with lists in PowerPoint that you can in other Microsoft 365 programs, such as Word. For example, PowerPoint does not support:
Decimal numbered lists (1.1, 1.2, and so on).
Defining new number formats (you must choose from the default set of styles offered on the Numbered tab in the Bullets and Numbering box).
Applying bold, italic, or underline formatting to bullets or numbers (any formatting will be applied to the entire selected line or list).
Nested lists (you can press Tab or click Increase List Level
to create the same effect, but a new indented bullet or number style is not set automatically by PowerPoint).
Frequently asked questions
Select a heading below to open it and see the detailed instructions.
Why am I seeing only a single bullet, no matter how many lines I add?
Check to make sure you're putting bullets or numbers in a Text box, and not a Title box. In a Text box, you get a number or bullet every time you press Enter. If you press Ctrl + Enter, you get additional lines without bullets (good for details or notes on a bulleted or numbered line).
In a Title box, the text is expected to be a single line heading or title. You can use numbers or bullets, but it treats all lines of text as a single line, resulting in a single bullet or number.
How do I stop creating bullets every time I add a line?
To stop creating bullets or numbers and return to text, click Bullets
or Numbering
again to turn it off.
You can also press Enter and then press Backspace to erase the bullet or number. You can then start adding text, or press Enter to add extra empty lines.
How do I do multi-level bulleting?
To create an indented (subordinate) list within a list, place the cursor at the start of the line that you want to indent, and then on the Home tab, in the Paragraph group, click Increase List Level .
1 . Decrease List Level (indent)
2 . Increase List Level (indent)
To move text back to a less indented level in the list, place the cursor at the start of the line, and then on the Home tab, in the Paragraph group, click Decrease List Level .
How do I increase or decrease the space between a bullet or number and the text in a line?
To increase or decrease the space between a bullet or number and the text in a line, place the cursor at the start of the line of text. To view the ruler, on the View tab, in the Show group, click the Ruler check box. On the ruler, click the hanging indent (as shown in diagram below) and drag to change the space between the bullet or number and the corresponding text.
There are three different markers that appear on the ruler to indicate the indentation defined for a text box.
1 . first line indent – Indicates the position of the actual bullet or number character. If the paragraph is not bulleted then this indicates the position of the first line of text.
2 . left indent – Adjusts both the First Line and Hanging indent markers and maintains their relative spacing.
3 . hanging indent – Indicates the position of the actual lines of text. If the paragraph is not bulleted then this indicates the position of the second line (and subsequent lines) of text.
How do I change the default bullets to another symbol?
To change the default bullets in PowerPoint on your Windows PC, follow these steps.
On the View tab, click Slide Master .
Select the Master slide (the first, larger slide in the thumbnail panel).
Click the Home tab.
Select one or more of the bulleted lines in the samples.
Click the down arrow on the Bullet button, and choose the style you want for a default.
Repeat if you have different bullets for different lines.
When you're done updating the bullet styles, click the Slide Master tab, and then click Close Master View .
When you insert a slide or a text box for bullets, it will reflect your new bullet defaults.
For more information working with masters, see Change a slide master .
Insert a bulleted or numbered list
On the View tab, click Normal .
Click in the text box or placeholder where you want to add bulleted or numbered text.
On the Home tab, in the Paragraph group, click Bullets
or Numbering
, and begin typing your list. Press Return to create a new list item.
Or, select lines of text that are already on your slide, and then click Bullets or Numbering to format that text as a list.
Change the look of a bullet or number
To change one bullet or number, place the cursor at the start of the line that you want to change. To change multiple bullets or numbers, select the text in all of the bullets or numbers that you want to change.
On the Home tab, click the arrow next to either the Bullets
or Numbering
button, and then click Bullets and Numbering .
In the Bullets and Numbering dialog box, do one or more of the following:
To use a picture as a bullet, on the Bullets tab, click Picture , and then scroll to find a picture icon that you want to use.
To add a character from the symbol list to the Bulleted or Numbered tabs, on the Bullets tab, click the gear icon
under Customize , click a symbol, and then click OK . You can apply the symbol to your slides from the style lists.
To change a numbered list to start at a certain number, on the Numbering tab, type the number in the Start at box.
To change the color or size of bullets or numbers, choose an option under Color or Size .
Change the indent or spacing between text and points
To create an indented (subordinate) list within a list, place the cursor at the start of the line that you want to indent, and then on the Home tab, click Indent More
. You can also press TAB to increase the indent.
To move text back to a less indented level in the list, place the cursor at the start of the line and click Indent Less
.
To create spacing between list points, on the Home tab, click Line Spacing
.
Remove bullets and numbering
Select your list, and on the Home tab, click the Bullets
or Numbering
buttons to remove the formatting.
Format text as a list
Go to the slide that you want to add list formatting to.
On the slide, select the lines of text in a text placeholder or table that you want to add bullets or numbering to.
On the Home tab, in the Paragraph group, click Bullets
or Numbering
.
Note
To change all lines of text, you can select the outline of the placeholder box or text that contains the text, and then apply the bullet or numbering.
Default bullet or numbering style is immediately applied to your selected text. To see a gallery of formatting options for your list, click the small downward pointing arrow on the Bullets or Numbering button:
Figure 1: Bulleted list: the style gallery
Figure 2: Numbered list: the style gallery
To change the indentation level of the list, select the list and then, on the Home tab of toolbar ribbon, click Increase Indent
or Decrease Indent
.
Select text
To select a word : Point at the word and double-click the mouse.
To select a paragraph : Point at a word in the paragraph and triple-click.
See Also
Make words appear one line at a time in PowerPoint
Apply or change a slide layout
What is a slide master?
Was this information helpful?
Yes
No
Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft?
Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.)
What affected your experience?
Resolved my issue
Clear instructions
Easy to follow
No jargon
Pictures helped
Other
Didn't match my screen
Incorrect instructions
Too technical
Not enough information
Not enough pictures
Other
Any additional feedback? (Optional)
Submit feedback
By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services.
Your IT admin will be able to collect this data.
Privacy Statement.
Thank you for your feedback!
×
What's new
Surface Pro
Surface Laptop
Surface Laptop Ultra
Surface RTX Spark Dev Box
Copilot for organizations
Copilot for personal use
Explore Microsoft products
Windows 11 apps
Microsoft Store
Account profile
Download Center
Microsoft Store support
Returns
Order tracking
Certified Refurbished
Microsoft Store Promise
Flexible Payments
Education
Microsoft in education
Devices for education
Microsoft Teams for Education
Microsoft 365 Education
How to buy for your school
Educator training and development
Deals for students and parents
AI for education
Business
Microsoft AI
Microsoft Security
Dynamics 365
Microsoft 365
Microsoft Power Platform
Microsoft Teams
Microsoft 365 Copilot
Small Business
Developer & IT
Azure
Microsoft Developer
Microsoft Learn
Support for AI marketplace apps
Microsoft Tech Community
Microsoft Marketplace
Software companies
Visual Studio
Company
Careers
About Microsoft
Company news
Privacy at Microsoft
Investors
Diversity and inclusion
Accessibility
Sustainability
English (United States)
Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon
Your Privacy Choices
Consumer Health Privacy
Sitemap
Contact Microsoft
Privacy
Manage cookies
Terms of use
Trademarks
Safety & eco
Recycling
About our ads
© Microsoft 2026