 Create a self-running presentation | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Create a self-running presentation Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016 Get help with Copilot How do I add narration to a self-running presentation? How do I rehearse my presentation timings? Walk me through creating a self-running presentation. You can use a self-running presentation to run unattended in a booth or kiosk at a trade show or convention, or you can save it as a video and send it to a client. Windows macOS On the Slide Show tab, select Set Up Slide Show . Under Show type , pick one of the following: Presented by a speaker (full screen) Allows the people watching your slide show to have control over when they advance the slides. Browsed by an individual (window) Presents your slide show in a window, where control over advancing the slides is not available to the people watching. Browsed at a kiosk (full screen) Loops your slide show until the person watching presses Esc. Rehearse and record slide timings When you choose the following show types: Presented by a speaker (full screen) or Browsed at a kiosk (full screen) , you'll want to rehearse and record timings for effects and slides. On the Slide Show tab, select Rehearse Timings . Note The presentation timer begins immediately when you select Rehearse Timings . The Rehearsal toolbar appears and the Slide Time box begins timing the presentation. Figure: The Rehearsal toolbar Next (advance to next slide) Pause Slide Time Repeat Total presentation time While timing your presentation, you can do one or more of the following on the Rehearsal toolbar: To move to the next slide, select Next . To temporarily stop recording the time, select Pause . To restart recording the time after pausing, select Pause . To set an exact length of time for a slide to appear, type the length of time in the Slide Time box. To restart recording the time for the current slide, select Repeat . After you set the time for the last slide, a message box displays the total time for the presentation and prompts you to do one of the following: To keep the recorded slide timings, select Yes . To discard the recorded slide timings, select No . Slide Sorter view appears and displays the time of each slide in your presentation. Add narration or sound To record a narration, your computer requires a sound card and a microphone, and a microphone connector if the microphone is not a part of your computer. On the Slide Show tab, in the Set Up group, select the arrow on the Record button. Select one of the following: From Current Slide From Beginning Select Start Recording . To end your slide show recording, right-click the slide, and then select End Show . The recorded slide show timings are automatically saved and the slide show appears in Slide Sorter view with timings beneath each slide. You can record a narration before you run a presentation, or you can record it during the presentation and include audience comments. If you do not want narration throughout your entire presentation, you can record separate sounds or comments on selected slides or objects. For more details, see Record a slide show with narration and slide timings . On the Slide Show tab, select Set Up Slide Show . Under Show type , pick one of the following: Presented by a speaker (full screen) Allows the people watching your slide show to have control over when they advance the slides. Browsed by an individual (window) Presents your slide show in a window, where control over advancing the slides is available to the people watching. Browsed at a kiosk (full screen) Loops your slide show until the person watching presses Esc. (Selecting this option automatically selects the Loop continuously until 'Esc' check box and causes your slide show to run in a loop.) Rehearse and record slide timings When you choose the following show types: Presented by a speaker (full screen) or Browsed at a kiosk (full screen) , you'll want to rehearse and record timings for effects and slides. On the Slide Show tab, select Rehearse Timings . Note The presentation timer begins immediately when you select Rehearse Timings . A Rehearsal toolbar appears, and the Slide Time box begins timing the presentation. The toolbar includes a timer, a pause/play button, and Repeat button While timing your presentation, you can do one or more of the following on the Rehearsal toolbar: To move to the next slide, select Next . To temporarily stop recording the time, select Pause . To restart recording the time after pausing, select Play . To restart recording the time for the current slide, select Repeat . After you set the time for the last slide, a message box displays the total time for the presentation and prompts you to do one of the following: To keep the recorded slide timings, select Yes . To discard the recorded slide timings, select No . On the view tab, you can then switch to Slide Sorter view to see the time allotted for each slide in your presentation. Set up slide transitions If you want a slide show to run automatically at a kiosk, you can control when and how the slides advance. To do this, you can apply the same transition to all slides in the presentation and set the transition to automatically advance after a certain time interval. On the Transitions tab, select the transition that you want. To see more transitions, point to a transition, and then select . Do the following on the Transitions tab: To set the amount of time that each slide is displayed, select After and enter the number of seconds you want. To set the duration of each transition between slides, enter the amount of time in the Duration box. Select Apply to All . Export a presentation to video You can export a presentation as a movie file. See Save a presentation as a movie file for more details. Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026 