 Set the timing and speed of a transition | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Set the timing and speed of a transition Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016 Get help with Copilot Can I set a sound to play during a transition? Show me how to move through the slide show. Set the timing and speed of a transition for me. Windows macOS You can modify the duration of a transition, modify the transition effect, and even specify a sound to play during a transition. Also, you can specify the time to spend on a slide before advancing to the next. Set the speed of a transition Use Duration to set transition speed. A shorter duration means that a slide advances faster, and a larger number makes the slide advance more slowly. Select the slide that has the transition that you want to modify. On the Transitions tab, in the Timing group, in the Duration box, type the number of seconds that you want. Tip If you want all the slide show's transitions to use the same speed, click Apply to All . Modify the effect options for a transition Many, but not all, of the transitions in PowerPoint can be customized. Select the slide that has the transition you want to modify. On the Transitions tab, in the Transition to This Slide group, click Effect Options and select the option that you want. In this example, a Gallery transition is applied to the slide and the From Right option is selected. A Gallery transition, with the From Right option selected, during a presentation. Specify a time to advance to the next slide Advance Slide sets the transition timing by specifying how long a slide stays in view before the transition to the next slide begins. If no timing is selected, slides advance when you click the mouse. Select the slide that you want to set the timing for. On the Transitions tab, in the Timing group, under Advance Slide , do one of the following: To make the slide advance to the next slide when you click the mouse, select the On Mouse Click check box. To make the slide advance automatically, select the After check box, and then enter the number of minutes or seconds that you want. The timer starts when the final animation or other effect on the slide finishes. To enable both the mouse and automatic advance, select both the On Mouse Click check box and the After check box. Then, at After , enter the number of minutes or seconds that you want. The slide will advance automatically, but you can advance it more quickly by clicking the mouse. Tip If you want all the slides to advance using the same speed, click Apply to All . Set a sound to play during a transition Select the slide that has the transition that you want to modify. On the Transitions tab, in the Timing group, in the Sound list, select the sound that you want. Note If you want to use your own sound, in the Sound list, select Other Sound . Then, in the Add Audio dialog box, select the sound that you want, and then click OK You can modify the duration of a transition, modify the transition effect, and even specify a sound to play during a transition. Also, you can specify the time to spend on a slide before advancing to the next. Set the speed of a transition Use Duration to set transition speed. A shorter duration means that a slide advances faster, and a larger number makes the slide advance more slowly. Select the slide that has the transition that you want to modify. On the Transitions tab, in the Timing group, type the number of seconds that you want into the Duration box. Tip If you want all the slide show's transitions to use the same speed, select Apply to All . Modify the effect options for a transition Many, but not all, of the transitions in PowerPoint can be customized. Select the slide that has the transition you want to modify. On the Transitions tab, select Effect Options next to the transitions gallary and select the option that you want. Specify a time to advance to the next slide Advance Slide sets the transition timing by specifying how long a slide stays in view before the transition to the next slide begins. If no timing is selected, slides advance when you click the mouse. Select the slide that you want to set the timing for. On the Transitions tab, in the Timing group, under Advance Slide , do one of the following: To make the slide advance to the next slide when you click the mouse, select the On Mouse Click check box. To make the slide advance automatically, select the After check box, and then enter the number of minutes or seconds that you want. The timer starts when the final animation or other effect on the slide finishes. To enable both the mouse and automatic advance, select both the On Mouse Click check box and the After check box. Then, at After , enter the number of minutes or seconds that you want. The slide will advance automatically, but you can advance it more quickly by clicking the mouse. Tip If you want all the slides to advance using the same speed, click Apply to All . Set a sound to play during a transition Select the slide that has the transition that you want to modify. On the Transitions tab, select the sound that you want from the Sound list, . Note If you want to use your own sound, in the Sound list, select Other Sound . Then, in the Add Audio dialog box, select the sound that you want, and then select OK . See Also Add, change, or remove transitions between slides Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026 