 Add, change, or remove transitions between slides | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Add, change, or remove transitions between slides Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016 PowerPoint for iPad PowerPoint for iPhone PowerPoint for Android tablets PowerPoint for Android phones PowerPoint Mobile Get help with Copilot What are the steps to add or change a slide transition? Show me how to remove an animation effect. Add, change, or remove transitions between slides for me. A slide transition is the visual effect that occurs when you move from one slide to the next during a presentation. You can control the speed, add sound, and customize the look of transition effects. Windows macOS Web Android iOS Office Universal Apps Add slide transitions to bring your presentation to life Select the slide you want to add a transition to. Select the Transitions tab and choose a transition. Select a transition to see a preview. Select Effect Options to choose the direction and nature of the transition. Select Preview to see what the transition looks like. Select Apply To All to add the transition to the entire presentation. Remove a transition A transition determines how a slide enters, and how the previous slide exits. So if (for example) you didn't want a transition effect between slides 2 and 3, you would remove the transition from slide 3 . Select the slide that has the transition you want to remove. On the Transitions tab, in the Transitions gallery, select None . If you want to remove all transitions from the presentation, after you select None , select Apply to All . Change a transition Only one transition effect can be applied to a slide at a time. So if a slide already has a transition effect applied to it, you can change to a different effect by going to the Transitions tab and simply selecting the effect you prefer. If you want to change an existing effect by modifying the timing or direction of it, you can that by using the options on the Transitions tab of the ribbon, at the far end: Select the slide that has the transition you want to modify. On the Transitions tab, select Effect Options , then choose an option from the menu that appears. In the Timing group on the Transitions tab, you can change the duration of the effect. You can also specify whether the effect takes place after a mouse click or after a certain amount of time passes. There are also options for adding a sound to the transition effect or applying the transition to all slides in the slide show. See Also Set the timing and speed of a transition Video: Add a sound effect to a transition Use the Morph transition in PowerPoint (only in Microsoft 365 or PowerPoint 2019/2021) The difference between animations and transitions Add a transition to a slide In the Thumbnail Pane, click the slide that you want to apply a transition to. The transition setting determines how a slide enters, and how the one before it exits. In the example below, applying a Fade transition to slide 3 means that slide 2 fades out, and slide 3 fades in. On the Transitions tab, find the effect that you want in the Transition gallery. Click the down arrow to see the entire gallery. Click the effect that you want for that slide and to see a preview. Click Transitions > Effect Options to change how the transition occurs – for example, what direction the slide enters from. Enter a time at Duration to set how fast the transition goes. Set the number higher to make the transition go slower. Click Preview to see what the transition looks like with all the settings. Tip If you want all slides in the presentation to transition the same way, click Apply To All in the ribbon. Remove a transition Click the slide with the transition you want to remove. Then on the Transitions tab, in the Transitions gallery, click None . Remember that a transition determines how a slide enters, and how the previous slide exits. So if (for example) you don't want slide 2 to have an exit effect, you must remove the transition from slide 3. Tip You can tell which slides have a transition effect applied by looking for the transition icon in the Thumbnail pane. See Also Use the Morph transition in PowerPoint Record your slide show The difference between animations and transitions Add or change a slide transition In the Thumbnail Pane, select the slide where you want to apply or change a transition. The transition will begin on the preceding slide and conclude on the slide you select. On the Transitions tab, find the effect that you want in the Transition gallery. Click Effect Options to specify how the transition occurs. Optional: To set how fast the transition goes, enter a time in the Duration box on the ribbon. Set the number higher to make the transition go slower. For more about transition timing, see Set the speed and timing of transitions . If you want all slides in the presentation to transition the same way, click Apply To All . To see the transition in action, select the slide that begins the transition , and then click the Slide Show icon at the lower-right corner of your browser window. (This button starts the slide show at the currently selected slide, rather than beginning the slide show from the start of the presentation.) Remove a transition Remember that a transition applies to a slide's entrance, not how it exits. So if you want to remove the exit effects for slide 2, for example, remove the transition from slide 3. Click the slide that you want to have no transition. Then, on the Transitions tab, in the Transitions gallery, click None . In our example, if slide 3 has no transition, it appears instantly as slide 2 disappears. If you want to remove the transitions from all slides, click Apply to All on the ribbon after clicking None . Change a transition Only one transition effect can be applied to a slide at a time. So if a slide already has a transition effect applied to it, you can change to a different effect by going to the Transitions tab and simply selecting the effect you prefer. If you want to change an existing effect by modifying the timing or direction of it, you can that by using the options on the Transitions tab of the ribbon, at the far end: Select the slide that has the transition you want to modify. On the Transitions tab, select Options , then choose an option from the menu that appears. You can also change the duration of the effect. The timing is measured in seconds. Add an animation effect on a slide If you're looking for information about how to add animation to text elements or objects within one slide, see Animate text or objects . See Also The difference between animations and transitions Add a transition Open your presentation. On your Android tablet, tap the Transitions tab. On your Android phone, tap the Edit icon at the top right of your screen, tap Home , and then tap Transitions . Tap the down arrow to expand the Transition Effects . You will see a gallery of transition effects grouped into Subtle , Exciting , and Dynamic categories. Choose a transition; for example, tap Morph to have one slide gradually turn into the next slide. Tap Effect Options to choose the direction of the transition. (Optional) Tap Apply to All to apply the same transition to all slides in the presentation. Remove a transition On your Android tablet, tap the Transitions tab. On your Android phone, tap the Edit icon at the top right of your screen, tap Home , and then tap Transitions . Expand Transition Effects . Tap None . Add a transition Open your presentation. On your iPad, tap the Transitions tab. On your iPhone, tap the Edit icon , tap Home , and then tap Transitions . Tap Transition Effect . You will see a gallery of transition effects grouped into Subtle and Exciting categories. Choose a transition; for example, tap Morph to have one slide gradually turn into the next slide. Tap Effect Options to choose an effect. (These options will vary depending on the transition you choose.) (Optional) Tap Apply to All to apply the same transition to all slides in the presentation. Remove a transition On your iPad, tap the Transitions tab. On your iPhone, tap the Edit icon , tap Home , and then tap Transitions . Tap Transition Effect . Tap None . Add a transition Open your presentation. Tap the Transitions tab. On your Windows phone, double-tap the slide you want, then tap More at the bottom right of your screen, tap Home , and then tap Transitions . Tap the down arrow to expand the Transition Effects . You will see a gallery of transition effects grouped into Subtle , Exciting , and Dynamic categories. Choose a transition; for example, tap Morph to have one slide gradually turn into the next slide. Tap Effect Options to choose the direction of the transition. Tap Preview to see the effect applied to your slide. (Optional) Tap Apply to All to apply the same transition to all slides in the presentation. Remove a transition Tap the Transitions tab. On your Windows phone, double-tap the slide you want, then tap More at the bottom right of your screen, tap Home , and then tap Transitions . Expand Transition Effects . Tap None . Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026 