Configure Startup applications in Windows | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Related topics Related topics × System settings basics Find information about your device Change default apps Configure system settings System configuration tools Configure startup applications Configure Windows startup options Enable virtualization Configure Startup applications in Windows Applies To Windows 11 Windows 10 Get help with Copilot How do I configure startup applications from Settings? How do I configure startup apps from Task Manager? How do I fix "We couldn't find this app" on startup? Summary When it comes to optimizing your Windows device, one of the key optimization areas is the startup process. The applications that run automatically when your device boots up can impact both the speed of your startup and the overall performance of your system. By customizing which applications launch on startup, you can streamline your routine, ensuring that only the tools you need for your daily tasks are ready and waiting for you. Depending on how the applications are installed and registered in Windows, there are different ways to configure their startup behavior: Any applications that are registered in Windows with a startup task can be configured from Settings or from Task Manager. Other applications can be configured using File Explorer. Expand each section to learn more. Configure startup applications from Settings Select Start > Settings > Apps > Startup. Open Startup settings For any of the applications in the list: Set the toggle to On to start the app automatically when you sign in. Set the toggle to Off to prevent the app from starting automatically. If you want to change the advanced settings for that app, select the chevron and make changes as desired If the app that you want to configure isn't listed in the startup list, you can configure its startup from File Explorer. Configure startup applications from Task Manager The Task Manager provides the same list of startup applications offered by Settings. You can configure the applications that run at startup with both tools, but they present the information slightly differently. The Task Manager provides a more detailed view, including the impact each app has on the startup process. This can be particularly useful for troubleshooting performance issues during system startup. Right-click on Start and select Task Manager. Select the Startup apps tab. Select the app that you want to configure: Select Enable to start the app automatically when you sign in. Select Disable to prevent the app from starting automatically. Task Manager shows the impact of each of the apps have on your startup experience: None : Startup app is disabled Not Measured : No data available to measure the startup app, startup app is enabled Low Impact : Total CPU usage takes less than 300 milliseconds and total disk usage is less than 292 kilobytes Medium Impact : Total CPU usage takes less than 1 second but more than 300 milliseconds or total disk usage is less than 3 megabytes but more than 292 kilobytes High Impact : Total CPU usage takes more than 1 second or total disk usage is more than 3 megabytes If the app that you want to configure isn't listed in the startup list, you can configure its startup from File Explorer. Configure startup applications from File Explorer For applications that aren't registered in Windows with a startup task, you can use File Explorer. The process consists of copying or creating a shortcut to the app's executable to either one of these folders: shell:startup If you are configuring the startup behavior for the current user Note The path corresponds to %userprofile%\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Startup shell:common startup If you are configuring the startup behavior for all users using the device Note The path corresponds to %ProgramData%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Startup Here are the steps: Right-click on Start and select Run. In the Run dialog box, type shell:appsfolder and select Enter.⁠ A File Explorer window opens, containing a list of all applications installed on the device. Keep this first window open. Right-click on Start and select Run. In the Run dialog box, type either shell:startup or shell:common startup and select Enter.⁠ A second File Explorer window opens, containing a list of applications that start automatically when a user signs in. Drag and drop the applications that you want to start automatically from the first window to the second one. If you want to remove applications from the startup folder, delete the links from the second window. Fix the error: We couldn’t find this app If you see the massage We couldn’t find this app as an app title in Settings, the app could be on a removable drive, a network drive, or the path to the app might not exist. This could also happen if an app was uninstalled, therefore you can try to reinstall the app to try to fix it. To find more information about the missing app, select the icon next to the On / Off toggle of the app. When there isn’t a valid path, a window lists the registry location or the file path that contains the broken path. If the path points to a registry location, you can use the Registry Editor and find the broken path. Startup apps in the registry The startup applications in Windows can be stored in specific registry locations. For applications that run at startup for all users, the registry paths are: HKLM\Software\Wow6432Node\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run HKLM\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run For applications that run at startup for the current user, the registry path is: HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run Caution Modifying the registry can have unintended consequences. It’s important to be careful and back up the registry before making changes. Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026