Windows 10 support has ended on October 14, 2025 | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Windows 10 support has ended on October 14, 2025 Applies To Windows 10 Windows 10 has reached the end of support on October 14, 2025. At this point technical assistance, feature updates and security updates is no longer provided. If you have devices running Windows 10, we recommend upgrading them to Windows 11, a more modern, secure, and highly efficient computing experience. If devices do not meet the technical requirements to run on Windows 11, we recommend that you enroll in the Windows 10 Consumer Extended Security Updates (ESU) program or replace the device with one that supports Windows 11. What are my options for staying supported on a Windows operating system? Installing Windows 11 on your current PC - If your PC meets the minimum system requirements for Windows 11 and is eligible to upgrade directly to Windows 11, you might have already received a notification about upgrading. To check if your PC is eligible for the free upgrade go to Start > Settings > Update & Security > Windows Update and select Check for updates . New PC with Windows 11 - If your PC is not eligible, or if you want a new PC with Windows 11 pre-installed, you might want to start by exploring the latest Windows 11 PCs . This tool will help you find the right PC based on your unique needs. Extended Security Updates (ESU) program - If you need more time before moving to a Copilot+ PC or other new Windows 11 device, the consumer Extended Security Updates (ESU) program can protect your Windows 10 device till October 12, 2027. If you're an IT pro, see Extended Security Updates (ESU) program for Windows 10. Below is a workflow that can help you identify the next steps:⁠ Choose your path according to the image above: Is my PC running Windows 10? PC Health Check Install Windows 11 Help me choose Extended Security Updates Frequently asked questions about Windows 10 end of support What does end of support mean? After October 14, 2025, computers running Windows 10 will still function, but Microsoft will no longer provide the following: Technical support of any issue Software updates Security updates or fixes While you could continue to use a PC running Windows 10, without continued software and security updates, your PC will be at a greater risk for viruses and malware. After this date, we recommend upgrading to a version of Windows that is still supported. A new device that can run Windows 11 makes for an easy transition and a great experience. Will my Windows 10 computer stop working? No. Support for Windows 10 is discontinued, but the software will continue to function. However, after October 14, 2025, your computer running Windows 10 will no longer receive security updates. In addition, Microsoft customer service will no longer be available to provide Windows 10 technical support. Where can I purchase a new Windows 11 computer? Microsoft has a great selection of Surface with Windows 11 PCs. To learn more about Surface PCs with Windows 11 you can explore all Surface devices , you can check out great Surface deals and, if you are a small business owner find the right Surface with Windows 11 PC for your business . This tool can help you find the right PC based on your unique needs. How much does it cost to upgrade to Windows 11? It’s free. But only Windows 10 PCs that are running Windows 10, version 22H2 and meet the minimum hardware specifications will be able to upgrade. To check if your PC is eligible for the free upgrade go to Start > Settings > Update & Security > Windows Update and select Check for updates . Note that in areas where the internet is metered, ISP fees may apply. How do I transfer my personal files and settings to a new computer? It’s easy to bring your files and photos to a new PC using Windows Backup. Windows Backup helps you save and transfer your files, photos, settings, apps, and log in credentials so you can instantly feel at home on your new computer. Learn more about transferring your data with Windows Backup Will my Microsoft 365 Apps be supported when Windows 10 reaches end of support? Support for Microsoft 365 Apps on Windows 10 will end on October 14, 2025, when Windows 10 reaches end of support. Although these applications will continue to run on Windows 10, we strongly recommend upgrading to Windows 11 to avoid performance and reliability issues with using those apps over time. In the interest of maintaining your security while you upgrade to Windows 11, we will continue providing security updates for Microsoft 365 on Windows 10 for a total of three years after Windows 10 end of support, ending on October 10, 2028. To learn more, see What Windows end of support means for Office and Microsoft 365 . How will end of support for Windows 10 affect my Microsoft Office apps? On October 14, 2025, support for non-subscription versions of Office will be affected in two ways: Support for Office 2016 and Office 2019 will end, across all operating systems. Office 2024 and Office 2021 (including Office LTSC versions) will continue to run on Windows 10 but will no longer be supported. To maintain a supported configuration, we recommend that you upgrade your device to Windows 11 and consider subscribing to Microsoft 365 . If you are running Office 2021, Office LTSC 2021, Office 2024, or Office LTSC 2024, you can also migrate that license to a new Windows 11 device. As you consider your options, please note that support for Office 2021 and Office LTSC 2021 will end one year later, in October 2026. To learn more, see What Windows end of support means for Office and Microsoft 365 . What can I do with my old computer? When you are ready to purchase a new Windows 11 PC, we encourage you to leverage trade-in and recycling programs available from many of our Windows ecosystem partners including numerous retailers and PC manufacturers. If you have an eligible device, you can also take advantage of the Microsoft trade-in program to securely and responsibly recycle your PC—and get some extra cash. This resource can help you learn the trade-in value of your used device. You can also return and recycle your device responsibly with our end-of-life management and recycling initiatives. Related articles Getting ready for the Windows 11 upgrade Making the transition to a new era of computing Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026