https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/3ac2075c-f51b-4fbd-b356-b4c6748ec966

Change the background of slides | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Change the background of slides Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016 Get help with Copilot How do I apply a background to all slides? How do I remove a slide background picture? Draft a guide on changing slide backgrounds. In PowerPoint, you can change the slide background to a picture or a color. Windows Web macOS You can add a solid or gradient color, a pattern, or an image as the background of a slide or an entire presentation. Format the slide background with color On the ribbon, select the Design tab. At the far-right end, select Format Background . The Format Background pane opens on the right side of the window. Under Fill , select Solid fill , Gradient fill , or Pattern fill . Select a color and other accompanying options, as applicable. By default, the selections you make apply to the current slide. If you want them to apply to all slides in your file, at the bottom of the pane, select Apply to All . Format the slide background with a photo On the ribbon, select the Design tab. At the far-right end, select Format Background . The Format Background pane opens on the right side of the window. Under Fill , select Picture or texture fill . Under Picture Source , select Insert. Choose where you want to get the image from, then navigate to the image, select it, and select Insert . Adjust other settings as needed, such as the transparency of the image. By default, the selections you make apply to the current slide. If you want them to apply to all slides in your file, at the bottom of the pane, select Apply to All . In PowerPoint for the web, you can do basic background formatting of one or more slides with a solid color or a picture. To do more advanced formatting, such as adding a color gradient or making a picture transparent, use the desktop version of PowerPoint on Windows or macOS. Format the slide background with color You can fill the background with a solid color. PowerPoint for the web doesn't support gradient fills for slide backgrounds. If you would like to have gradient fills in PowerPoint for the web, please let us know by providing us feedback. See How do I give feedback on Microsoft Office? for more information. On the Design tab, select Background . Select Solid Fill , then pick a color from the gallery. (To reset the background to its previous state, select Home > Undo .) If you want to have all slides have this same background color, on the Design tab, select Background > Apply to All . Format the slide background with a photo When you insert a picture as a background, PowerPoint for the web resizes the image as best as it can to fill the entire area of the slide. For best results, choose a picture that has the same orientation as your slides. On the Design tab, select Background . Select Insert Picture , then under Picture Background , select either From Device (to select your own picture) or Stock Pictures (to select a picture from the Microsoft image library). Navigate to the picture you want to use. Select it, then select Open or Insert . To make all slides have this same background picture, on the Design tab, select Background again, then select Apply to All . PowerPoint for the web supports the following picture formats: .jpg, .jpeg, .png, .gif, .bmp, .wmf, .emf, .tif, and .tiff. PowerPoint for the web doesn't have the ability to make a picture transparent. Use the desktop PowerPoint app if you want to make a background picture transparent. PowerPoint for the web doesn't have the ability to remove a picture's background. Use the desktop PowerPoint app to remove a picture's background. Remove a slide background You can remove whatever slide background you currently have by resetting to a solid white background: On the Design tab, select Background . Select Solid Fill , then pick White, Background 1 at the upper left corner of the color gallery. Apply a comprehensive design theme to your presentation PowerPoint for the web comes with themes —sets of professionally designed colors, layouts, and fonts. After you select a theme, all your slides will adopt that look. For more information, see Apply a colorful theme to your presentation . Apply a background to all slides On the Design tab, in Customize , click Format Background . Select among the Solid , Gradient , Picture or Texture , or Pattern fill options to create the background style that you want. Select Apply to All . Apply a custom background to one or more slides On the View menu, click Normal , and then in the navigation pane, click the slide or slides that you want to change. On the Design tab, in Customize , click Format Background . Click Fill , and then click the Solid , Gradient , Picture or Texture , or Pattern option. Choose the background fills that you want. Note To later remove custom backgrounds and apply the default background for the theme to all slides, click the Solid fill option in Format Background . On the Theme Colors pop-up menu, click Automatic , and then click Apply All . Remove the backgrounds from all slides On the Design tab, in Customize , click Format Background . Click Solid fill , click Color and then select the white background in Theme Colors . Select Apply to All . See Also Add the same image or watermark to every slide Animate the background of your slides in PowerPoint for Mac Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026