https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/158e6dba-e53e-479b-a6fc-caab72609689

Apply a slide layout | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Apply a slide layout Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016 PowerPoint for iPhone PowerPoint for Android phones PowerPoint Mobile Get help with Copilot Show me how to customize a slide layout. Show me how to apply the updates they appear on my slides Apply a slide layout for me. Every theme in PowerPoint includes a set of slide layouts —predefined arrangements for your slide content. "Placeholder" boxes give you places to plug your content into with little or no manual formatting and arranging. You choose a layout from a menu in PowerPoint, then insert your words and graphics. The predefined layouts include a Title slide to begin with, a general Title and Content layout, a side-by-side Comparison layout, and a Picture-with-Caption layout. For more information about slide layouts, see What is a slide layout? Windows macOS Web Office for Android Office for iOS Windows Mobile Arrange slide content with different slide layouts to suit your taste and preference, or to improve the clarity and readability of the content. Select the slide that you want to change the layout for. Select Home > Slide Layout . Select the layout that you want. The layouts contain placeholders for text, videos, pictures, charts, shapes, clip art, a background, and more. The layouts also contain the formatting for those objects, like theme colors, fonts, and effects. Note Select Home > Reset if you made layout changes you don't like, and want to revert to the original layout. Using Reset doesn't delete any content you've added. Change the orientation of your slides A separate Help article describes how to switch between portrait and landscape orientations: landscape portrait See Change the page orientation in PowerPoint between landscape and portrait . See also Add, edit, or remove a placeholder on a slide layout What is a slide layout? What is a slide master? Add color and design to your slides with Themes Pick a standard slide layout In Normal view, on the Home tab, click Layout . Pick a layout that best suits the content of your slide. Customize a slide layout On the View tab, click Slide Master . The slide layouts appear as thumbnails in the left pane below the slide master. Do one or both of the following: Click the layout you want and customize it. You can add, remove, or resize placeholders, and you can use the Home tab to make changes to fonts, colors, and other design elements. Click Insert Layout to add a new slide and format it. Click Close Master to stop editing layouts. Your revised slide layout will be available to insert as a new slide anywhere in your presentation. Save your changes as a new theme Click Design and point to any theme. Click the down arrow under that appears under the themes panel. Click Save Current Theme , give the theme a name, and click Save . Your new theme will contain your newly revised slide layout and will be available in Themes gallery. Change the orientation of your slides To switch between portrait and landscape orientations, see Change the orientation . landscape portrait Related information What is a slide master? Create your own theme in PowerPoint Create and save a PowerPoint template Each slide layout contains placeholders for text, pictures, charts, shapes, and more. When you're arranging content on your slides, picking a slide layout that best suits your content gives you a head start. Pick a layout when you add a new slide: On the Home tab, click New Slide . Pick a layout for your new slide and the new slide appears or click Add Slide . Change the layout of an existing slide: On the Home tab, click Slide Layout . Pick a layout that better matches the content on your slide, and the new layout appears, or click Change layout . Change the orientation of your slides To switch between portrait and landscape orientations, see Change the orientation . landscape portrait On your phone or tablet: Tap the slide whose layout you want to define. On the floating toolbar at the bottom of the window, tap Home > Layout : Tap to select the slide layout you want. The layout is applied. You can continue editing the slide or move on to another one. On your phone or tablet: Tap the slide whose layout you want to define. On the floating toolbar at the bottom of the window, tap Home > Layout : Tap to select the slide layout you want. The layout is applied. You can continue editing the slide or move on to another one. On your tablet: Tap the slide whose layout you want to define. On the Home tab, tap Layout . Tap to select the slide layout you want. The layout is applied. You can continue editing the slide or move on to another one. Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026