https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/b9abb2a0-7aef-4257-a14e-4329c904da54

What is a slide master in PowerPoint? | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. What is a slide master in PowerPoint? Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016 When you want all your slides to contain the same fonts and images (such as logos), you can make those changes in one place—the Slide Master, and they'll be applied to all your slides. To open Slide Master view, on the View tab, select Slide Master : The master slide is the top slide in the thumbnail pane on the left side of the window. When you edit the slide master, all slides that are based on that master will contain those changes. However, the majority of changes that you make will most likely be to the layout masters related to the master. When you make changes to layout masters and the slide master in Slide Master view, other people working in your presentation (in Normal view) can't accidentally delete or edit what you've done. Conversely, if you're working in Normal view and find that you're unable to edit an element on a slide (such as, "why can't I remove this picture?") it may be because the thing you're trying to change is defined on the slide master or a layout master. To edit that thing, you must switch to Slide Master view. Note It's a good idea to edit your slide master and layout masters before you start to create individual slides. That way, all the slides that you add to your presentation are based on your custom edits. If you edit the slide master or layout masters after you create individual slides, you'll need to reapply the changed layouts to the existing slides in your presentation in Normal view. Themes A theme is a palette of colors, fonts, and special effects (like shadows, reflections, 3-D effects, and more) that complement one another. A skilled designer created each theme in PowerPoint. We make those pre-designed themes available to you on the Design tab in Normal view. You can also get more Free PowerPoint templates online . Every theme you use in your presentation includes a slide master and a related set of layouts. If you use more than one theme in your presentation, you'll have more than one slide master and multiple sets of layouts. Slide Layouts You change and manage slide layouts in Slide Master view. Every theme has a several slide layouts. You choose the layouts that best match your slide content; some are better for text and some are better for graphics. In Normal view, you'll apply the layouts to your slides. Each slide layout is set up differently—with different types of placeholders in different locations on each layout. Every slide master has a related slide layout called Title Slide Layout , and each theme arranges the text and other object placeholders for that layout differently, with different colors, fonts and effects. The following pictures contrast the title slide layouts for two themes: first the Basis theme and then the Integral theme. You can change anything about a layout to suit your needs. When you change a layout master and then go to Normal view, every slide you add after that time that's based on that layout will reflect the changed look of the layout. However, if there are existing slides in your presentation that are based on the prior version of the layout, you'll need to reapply the layout to those slides. (For instructions, see Edit and re-apply a slide layout .) For a complete discussion of slide layouts, see What is a slide layout? Cleaning up unused slide masters This feature is available only to Microsoft 365 Subscribers for Windows desktop clients. In Microsoft 365, when you open a presentation that has 25 or more slide masters and some of them are unused, PowerPoint opens a message box offering to remove the unused slide masters for you. You can accept or decline. You may want to simply know about the unused masters so that you can manually review them yourself at a later time. More information about slide masters, layouts, and themes What is a slide layout? Use multiple slide masters in one presentation Apply color and design to my slides (theme) Apply multiple slide designs (themes) to one presentation Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026