https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/powerpoint/training/customize-a-slide-master

Customize a slide master | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Customize a slide master Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016 Get help with Copilot How do I create and customize slide masters? How do I turn on footers for the slide master? Walk me through customizing a slide master. Use a slide master to add consistency to your colors, fonts, headings, logos, and other styles, and to help unify the form of your presentation. You can change a slide master's colors, fonts, or effects. You can move, hide, or show placeholders. You can also change the orientation of the page from portrait to landscape, or vice versa. Windows macOS Create and customize one or more slide masters On the View tab, select Slide Master . When you open Slide Master view, a slide master is shown in the thumbnail pane with the default, associated layouts below it. If you want to add another slide master, do the following: Click a location in the slide thumbnail pane where you want the new slide master to appear. On the Slide Master tab, select Insert Slide Master . Note In the slide thumbnail pane, the slide master is the larger slide image at the top, and the associated layouts are positioned below the slide master. Do any of the following: To create one or more custom layouts or to modify existing layouts, see Apply a slide layout . To remove any of the built-in slide layouts that accompany the default slide master, in the slide thumbnail pane, click each slide layout that you want to delete, and then on the Slide Master tab, click Delete . To apply a design or theme-based colors, fonts, effects and backgrounds, see Create your own theme in PowerPoint . To set the page orientation for all of the slides in your presentation, on the Slide Master tab, select Slide Size > Custom Slide Size . Under Orientation, select the orientation you want. To control whether footers (the slide number, date, and footer-text placeholders) are visible on a particular type of slide: In the thumbnail pane, select a slide layout, then on the Slide Master tab, select or clear Footers . To assign specific text to any of the footers, on the ribbon, select Insert > Headers, then select the options you want. See Insert or change the slide numbers, date, or footer for on-screen slides in PowerPoint for more details. After you make your changes, on the Slide Master tab, select Close Master View . If you want to save this as a template to reuse again, select File > Save as (or Save a Copy ), change the file type to template, enter a file name, and select Save . See Also What is a slide master? Add color and design to your slides with Themes Add, edit, or remove a placeholder on a slide layout Change text alignment, indentation, and spacing in PowerPoint Use multiple slide masters in one presentation Create and customize one or more slide masters On the View tab, click Slide Master . When you open Slide Master view, a blank slide-master with the default, associated layouts appear. If you want to add another slide master, do the following: Click a location in the slide thumbnail pane where you want the new slide master to appear. On the Slide Master tab, click Insert Slide Master . Note In the slide thumbnail pane, the slide master is the larger slide image, and the associated layouts are positioned beneath the slide master. Do any of the following: To create one or more custom layouts or to modify existing layouts, see Apply a slide layout . To remove any of the built-in slide layouts that accompany the default slide master, in the slide thumbnail pane, click each slide layout that you want to delete, and then on the Slide Master tab, click Delete . To apply a design or theme-based colors, fonts, effects and backgrounds, see Create your own theme in PowerPoint . To set the page orientation for all of the slides in your presentation, on the Slide Master tab, click Slide Size > Page Setup . Under Orientation, click the orientation you want. To add text that will appear as a footer at the bottom of all of the pages in your presentation, on the Slide Master tab, click Slide Size > Page Setup > Header/Footer . After you make your changes, on the Slide Master tab, click Close Master . If you want to save this as a template to reuse again, click File > Save as Template , type a file name, and click Save . Background information Learn more about slide masters See Also Create or change slide layouts in PowerPoint for Mac Add a transparent picture (watermark) to your slides in PowerPoint for Mac Add a logo, company name, or header or footer text to handouts Add page numbers, the date and time, or footer text to all slides in PowerPoint for Mac Change footer formatting on all slides in PowerPoint for Mac Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026