https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/8bad6395-a1f4-4af6-a360-0df412e510bf

Insert or change the slide numbers, date, or footer for on-screen slides in PowerPoint | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Insert or change the slide numbers, date, or footer for on-screen slides in PowerPoint Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016 Get help with Copilot How would I add text to the footer in PowerPoint? Show me how to add slide numbers or notes page numbers. Can I add the date and time in PowerPoint? In PowerPoint you can add or remove automatic slide numbers, hide numbering on the title slide, and move slide numbers. You can also add the date and time to slides. Windows macOS Web If you'd like to suggest improvements to the slide numbering feature, you can do that by selecting Help > Feedback > Make a suggestion . Select a heading below to open it and see the detailed instructions. Add slide numbers to your presentation On the Insert tab, select Slide Number . On the Slide tab, check the Slide number box. If you don't want a number to appear on the title slide, also check the Don't show on title slide box. Select Apply to All . The theme applied to your presentation has a standard location for where the numbers appear on your slides, as illustrated by the two themes picture below. To change that location, see "Change where the page numbers appear on your slides" below. Remove slide numbers from your presentation On the Insert tab, select Slide Number . On the Slide tab, clear the box named Slide number . Select Apply to All . Hide slide numbers on the title slide On the Insert tab, select Slide Number . On the Slide tab, check the Don't show on title slide box. Select Apply to All . Re-position the slide numbers On the View tab, select Slide Master . At the top of the thumbnail pane, select the Slide Master thumbnail. In the Slide pane, select and hold the page number placeholder until you see the four-headed arrow, and drag it to a new location. When you're finished, select Close Master View . Start your slide numbering with a specific number On the Design tab, select Slide Size , and then Custom Slide Size . Under Number slides from , select the up or down arrow to switch to the number that you want to start from: Select OK . Add the date and time On the View tab, in the Presentation Views group, select Normal . On the left of your screen, in the pane that contains the slide thumbnails, select the first slide thumbnail in your presentation. On the Insert tab, in the Text group, select Date & Time . The Header and Footer dialog box opens. On the Slide tab, select the Date and time check box, and then choose the kind of date you want: If you want the date and time to reflect the current date and time each time you open or print the presentation, select Update automatically , and then select the date and time format that you want. If you want to set the date and time to a specific date, select Fixed , and then, in the Fixed box, type the date that you want. By setting the date on your presentation so that it is Fixed , you can easily keep track of the last time you made changes to it. If you want to add the date and time to all of the slides in your presentation, select Apply to All . Add text to the footer On the Insert tab, select Header & Footer . On the Slide tab, check the Footer box. In the box below Footer , type the text that you want, such "Company Confidential". To prevent the footer from appearing on the title slide, check the Don't show on title slide box. Select Apply to All to make the footer appear on all slides, or select Apply to make it appear on just the currently selected slide. Delete a footer On the Insert tab, select Header & Footer . On the Slide tab, clear the Footer box. Select Apply to All to remove the footer from all slides in the presentation. Otherwise, select Apply to only remove the footer from the currently selected slide. Troubleshoot problems with making footers appear on your slides For details, see Troubleshoot footers . Other articles related to numbering and footers Change the fonts in a footer on a slide Why can't I select and change the text in the footer? Insert or remove slide numbers Go to View > Normal . Go to Insert > Slide Number . Select Slide Number , then enter the starting slide number. Preview shows the location. To add or remove the slide number from just the title page, clear or select Don't show on title slide . Select Apply to all or Apply . Insert the date and time in a footer Go to View > Normal . Go to Insert > Slide Number . Select Date and time , then select either Update automatically or Fixed . If you choose Fixed , enter the date in the format that you want. If you choose Update automatically, PowerPoint enters the current date, and you select the date format you want from the dropdown list. Select Apply to all or Apply . Add slide numbers to your presentation On the Insert tab, select Footer > Slide Number . In the Footer pane, select the Slide Number box. If you want to avoid having a slide number on the title slide, select Don't show on title slide . If you want to include additional "footer" text on your slides, select Footer , then enter the info you want in the text box. Select Apply to All . Close the Footer pane. Add a footer to your presentation On the Insert tab, select Footer > Footer . In the Footer pane, select the Footer box. Enter info you want in the text box. For example, you could enter a data or a file name. Select Apply to All . Close the Footer pane. Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026