https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/basic-tasks-for-creating-a-powerpoint-presentation-efbbc1cd-c5f1-4264-b48e-c8a7b0334e36

Basic tasks for creating a PowerPoint presentation | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Basic tasks for creating a PowerPoint presentation Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016 Get help with Copilot How do I save my PowerPoint presentation? How do I share my presentation online? Build a PowerPoint basics checklist. PowerPoint presentations work like slide shows. To convey a message or a story, you break it down into slides. Think of each slide as a blank canvas for the pictures and words that help you tell your story. Windows Web Choose a theme When you open PowerPoint, you'll see some built-in themes and templates . A theme is a slide design that contains matching colors, fonts, and special effects like shadows, reflections, and more. On the File tab of the Ribbon, select New , and then choose a theme. PowerPoint shows you a preview of the theme, with four color variations to choose from on the right side. Click Create , or pick a color variation and then click Create . Read more: Use or create themes in PowerPoint Insert a new slide On the Home tab, click the bottom half of New Slide , and pick a slide layout. Read more: Add, rearrange, and delete slides . Save your presentation On the File tab, choose Save . Pick or browse to a folder. In the File name box, type a name for your presentation, and then choose Save . Note If you frequently save files to a certain folder, you can ‘pin' the path so that it is always available (as shown below). Tip Save your work as you go. Press Ctrl+S often or save the file to OneDrive and let AutoSave take care of it for you. Read more: Save your presentation file Add text Select a text placeholder, and begin typing. Format your text Select the text. Select Shape Format , then in the WordArt Styles group, you can do one of the following: To change the color of your text, choose Text Fill , and then choose a color. To change the outline color of your text, choose Text Outline , and then choose a color. To apply a shadow, reflection, glow, bevel, 3-D rotation, a transform, choose Text Effects , and then choose the effect you want. Read more: Change the fonts Change the color of text on a slide Add bullets or numbers to text Format text as superscript or subscript Add pictures On the Insert tab, select Pictures , then do one of the following: To insert a picture that is saved on your local drive or an internal server, choose This Device , browse for the picture, and then choose Insert . (For Microsoft 365 subscribers) To insert a picture from our library, choose Stock Images , browse for a picture, select it and choose Insert . To insert a picture from the web, choose Online Pictures , and use the search box to find a picture. Choose a picture, and then click Insert . Add shapes You can add shapes to illustrate your slide. On the Insert tab, select Shapes , and then select a shape from the menu that appears. In the slide area, click and drag to draw the shape. Select the Format or Shape Format tab on the ribbon. Open the Shape Styles gallery to quickly add a color and style (including shading) to the selected shape. Add speaker notes Slides are best when you don't cram in too much information. You can put helpful facts and notes in the speaker notes, and refer to them as you present. To open the notes pane, at the bottom of the window, click Notes . Click inside the Notes pane below the slide, and begin typing your notes. Read more: Add speaker notes to your slides Print slides with or without speaker notes Give your presentation On the Slide Show tab, do one of the following: To start the presentation at the first slide, in the Start Slide Show group, click From Beginning . If you're not at the first slide and want to start from where you are, click From Current Slide . If you need to present to people who are not where you are, click Present Online to set up a presentation on the web, and then choose one of the following options: Broadcast your PowerPoint presentation online to a remote audience View your speaker notes as you deliver your slide show. Get out of Slide Show view To get out of Slide Show view at any time, on the keyboard, press Esc . Choose a theme You can quickly apply a theme when you're starting a new presentation: On the File tab, select New . Select Browse templates to choose a theme. Read more: Apply a design theme to your presentation Insert a new slide In the slide thumbnail pane on the left, select the slide that you want your new slide to follow. On the Home tab, select the lower half of New Slide . From the menu, select the layout that you want for your new slide. Your new slide is inserted, and you can click inside a placeholder to begin adding content. Learn more about slide layouts Read more: Add, rearrange, and delete slides Save your presentation PowerPoint for the web automatically saves your work to your OneDrive, in the cloud. To change the name of the automatically saved file: In the title bar, click the file name. In the File Name box, enter the name you want to apply to the file. If you want to change the cloud storage location, at the right end of the Location box, click the arrow symbol, then navigate to the folder you want, then select Move here . Add text Select a text placeholder, and begin typing. Format your text Select the text. On the Home tab, use the Font options: Do one of the following: To change the color of your text, select Font Color , and then choose a color. To incrementally change the size of text, select Increase Font Size or Decrease Font Size Select from other formatting options such as Bold , Italic , Underline , Strikethrough , Subscript , and Superscript . Read more: Add bullets or numbers to text Format text as superscript or subscript Add pictures On the Insert tab, select Pictures . From the menu, select where you want to insert the picture from: Browse to the image you want, select it, then select Insert . After the image is inserted on the slide, you can select it and drag to reposition it, and you can select and drag a corner handle to resize the image. Add shapes On the Insert tab, select Shapes , and then select a shape from the menu that appears. On the slide canvas, click and drag to draw the shape. Select the Shape tab on the ribbon. Open the Shape Styles gallery to quickly add a color and style (including shading) to the selected shape. Add speaker notes On the View tab, select Notes . A horizontal Notes pane appears at the bottom of the window, below the slide. Click in the pane, then enter text. The Notes pane can be made larger, if necessary. When you point at the top border of the pane, the mouse pointer becomes a two-headed arrow . Click the border, then drag up or down to resize the pane. Give your presentation On the Slide Show tab, select From Beginning . To navigate through the slides, simply click the mouse or press the spacebar. Tip You can also use the forward and back arrow keys on your keyboard to navigate through the slide show. Read more: Present your slide show Stop a slide show To get out of Slide Show view at any time, on the keyboard, press Esc. The full-screen slide show will close, and you will be returned to the editing view of the file. Tips for creating an effective presentation Consider the following tips to keep your audience interested. Minimize the number of slides To maintain a clear message and to keep your audience attentive and interested, keep the number of slides in your presentation to a minimum. Choose an audience-friendly font size The audience must be able to read your slides from a distance. Generally speaking, a font size smaller than 30 might be too difficult for the audience to see. Keep your slide text simple You want your audience to listen to you present your information, instead of reading the screen. Use bullets or short sentences, and try to keep each item to one line. Some projectors crop slides at the edges, so that long sentences might be cropped. Use visuals to help express your message Pictures, charts, graphs, and SmartArt graphics provide visual cues for your audience to remember. Add meaningful art to complement the text and messaging on your slides. As with text, however, avoid including too many visual aids on your slide. Make labels for charts and graphs understandable Use only enough text to make label elements in a chart or graph comprehensible. Apply subtle, consistent slide backgrounds Choose an appealing, consistent template or theme that is not too eye-catching. You don't want the background or design to detract from your message. However, you also want to provide a contrast between the background color and text color. The built-in themes in PowerPoint set the contrast between a light background with dark colored text or dark background with light colored text. For more information about how to use themes, see Add color and design to your slides with Themes . Check the spelling and grammar To earn and maintain the respect of your audience, always check the spelling and grammar in your presentation . Top of Page Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026