https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/powerpoint/training/add-rearrange-duplicate-and-delete-slides-in-powerpoint

Add, rearrange, duplicate, and delete slides in PowerPoint | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Add, rearrange, duplicate, and delete slides in PowerPoint Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016 Get help with Copilot How do I add, rearrange, duplicate, in PowerPoint? Show me how to use the Layout option to title a slide. Add, rearrange, duplicate, and delete slides in PowerPoint When creating your presentation, you'll typically add new slides, move your slides around, and delete the slides you don't need. Windows macOS Web Add slides Select the slide you want your new slide to follow. On the Home tab, select the arrow by New Slide . Select a layout. Select the text box and type. Delete slides For a single slide: Right-click the slide in the thumbnail pane on the left, then select Delete Slide . For multiple slides: Press and hold Ctrl, and in the thumbnail pane on the left, select the slides. Release the Ctrl key. Then right-click the selection and choose Delete Slide . For a sequence of slides: Press and hold Shift, and in the thumbnail pane on the left, select the first and last slides in the sequence. Release the Shift key. Then right-click the selection and choose Delete Slide . Duplicate a slide In the thumbnail pane on the left, right-click the slide thumbnail that you want to duplicate, and then click Duplicate Slide . The duplicate is inserted immediately after the original. Rearrange the order of slides Move a single slide: In the pane on the left, click the thumbnail of the slide that you want to move, then drag it to the new location. Move multiple slides: Press and hold Ctrl, and in the pane on the left, click each slide that you want to move. Release the Ctrl key, and then drag the selected slides as a group to the new location. See Also What is a slide layout? Use vertical (portrait) slide view for your presentation Reuse (import) slides from another presentation Basic tasks for creating a PowerPoint presentation Add a new slide In Normal view, on the left slide thumbnail pane, select the slide that you want your new slide to follow. On the Home tab, select the arrow by New Slide . In the gallery of layouts, select the layout that you want for your new slide. As your new slide is now inserted you can click inside a placeholder and begin adding content. Rearrange the order of slides In the left-side pane on, select the thumbnail of the slide that you want to move, then drag it to the new location. Tip To select multiple slides, press and hold the Command key while you click each slide that you want to move, and then drag them as a group to the new location. Delete a slide In the left-side pane, Ctrl+click or right-click select the thumbnail of the slide to be deleted. Then click Delete Slide . Alternatively, simply select the slide you want to delete, and press Delete. Duplicate a slide In the pane on the left, Ctrl+click or right-click the slide thumbnail that you want to duplicate. Then select Duplicate Slide in the menu of options. To add a slide from another presentation, see Reuse (import) slides from another presentation . Another way to see all your slides at once and rearrange them is to use the Slide Sorter view. Learn more here: Switch to different views in PowerPoint . See Also Organize your PowerPoint slide into sections Design in PowerPoint Apply a slide layout Create a presentation in four simple steps Discover more courses like this at LinkedIn Learning Add a new slide In the thumbnail pane on the left, select the slide that your new slide will come after. On the Home tab, click the arrow next New Slide . Select a layout for your new slide. Learn more about slide layouts . Rearrange the order of slides In the pane on the left, select the thumbnail of the slide to be moved, then drag it to the new location. Tip To move multiple slides, press and hold Ctrl as you click all of the slides to be moved. Then drag them as a group to the new location. Delete a slide In the left-side pane, right-click the thumbnail of the slide to be deleted. Press and hold Ctrl to select multiple slides or press and hold Shift to select multiple sequential slides. Then click Delete Slide . Duplicate a slide In the left-side pane, right-click the slide thumbnail that you want to duplicate. In the menu, select Duplicate Slide . See Also Apply a slide layout Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026