https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/choose-the-right-view-for-the-task-in-powerpoint-21332d8d-adbc-4717-a2c6-e25a697b40e9

Choose the right view for the task in PowerPoint | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Choose the right view for the task in PowerPoint Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016 Get help with Copilot How can I view for create presentation in PowerPoint? Explain how to use the controls in presenter view. Choose the right view for the task in PowerPoint for me. Windows macOS Web You can view your PowerPoint file in a variety of ways, depending on the task at hand. Some views are helpful when you're creating your presentation, and some are most helpful for delivering your presentation. You can find the different PowerPoint view options on the View tab, as shown below. You can also find the most frequently used views on the task bar at the bottom right of the slide window, as shown below. Note To change the default view in PowerPoint, see Change the default view . Views for creating your presentation Normal view You can get to Normal view from the task bar at the bottom of the slide window, or from the View tab on the ribbon. Normal view is the editing mode where you'll work most frequently to create your slides. Below, Normal view displays slide thumbnails on the left, a large window showing the current slide, and a section below the current slide where you can type your speaker notes for that slide. Slide Sorter view You can get to Slide Sorter view from the task bar at the bottom of the slide window, or from the View tab on the ribbon. Slide Sorter view (below) displays all the slides in your presentation in horizontally sequenced, thumbnails. Slide show view is helpful if you need to reorganize your slides—you can just click and drag your slides to a new location or add sections to organize your slides into meaningful groups. For more information about sections, see Organize your PowerPoint slides into sections . Notes Page view You can show or hide your speakers notes with the Notes button at the bottom of the slide window, or you can get to Notes Page view from the View tab on the ribbon. The Notes pane is located beneath the slide window. You can print your notes or include the notes in a presentation that you send to the audience, or just use them as cues for yourself while you're presenting. For more information about notes, see Add speaker notes to your slides . Outline view You can get to Outline view from the View tab on the ribbon. (In PowerPoint 2013 and later, you can no longer get to Outline view from Normal view. You have to get to it from the View tab.) Use Outline view to create an outline or story board for your presentation. It displays only the text on your slides, not pictures or other graphical items. Master views To get to a master view, on the View tab, in the Master Views group, choose the master view that you want. Master views include Slide , Handout , and Notes . The key benefit to working in a master view is that you can make universal style changes to every slide, notes page, or handout associated with your presentation. For more information about working with masters, see: What is a slide master? Use multiple slide masters in one presentation Edit page numbering, footers, and headers for Notes pages in PowerPoint Views for delivering and viewing a presentation Slide Show view You can get to Slide Show view from the task bar at the bottom of the slide window. Use Slide Show view to deliver your presentation to your audience. Slide Show view occupies the full computer screen, exactly the way your presentation will look on a big screen when your audience sees it. Presenter view To get to Presenter view, in Slide Show view, in the lower left corner of the screen, click , and then click Show Presenter View (as shown below). Use Presenter view to view your notes while delivering your presentation. In Presenter view, your audience cannot see your notes. For more information about using Presenter view, see Start the presentation and see your notes in Presenter view . Reading view You can get to Reading view from the task bar at the bottom of the slide window. Most people reviewing a PowerPoint presentation without a presenter will want to use Reading view. It displays the presentation in a full screen like Slide Show view, and it includes a few simple controls to make it easy to flip through the slides. The views in PowerPoint that you can use to edit, print, and deliver your presentation are as follows: Normal view Slide Sorter view Notes Page view Outline view Slide Show view Presenter view Master views: Slide, Handout, and Notes You can switch between PowerPoint views in two places: Use the View menu to switch between any of the views Access the three main views (Normal, Slide Sorter, or Slide Show) on the bottom bar of the PowerPoint window Views for creating or editing your presentation Several views in PowerPoint can help you create a professional presentation. Normal view Normal view is the main editing view, where you write and design your presentations. Normal view has three working areas: Thumbnail pane Slides pane Notes pane Slide Sorter view Slide Sorter view gives you a view of your slides in thumbnail form. This view makes it easy for you to sort and organize the sequence of your slides as you create your presentation, and then also as you prepare your presentation for printing. You can add sections in Slide Sorter view as well, and sort slides into different categories or sections. Notes Page view The Notes pane is located under the Slide pane. You can type notes that apply to the current slide. Later, you can print your notes and refer to them when you give your presentation. You can also print notes to give to your audience or include the notes in a presentation that you send to the audience or post on a Web page. Outline view (Introduced in PowerPoint 2016 for Mac) Outline view displays your presentation as an outline made up of the titles and main text from each slide. Each title appears on the left side of the pane that contains the Outline view, along with a slide icon and slide number. Working in Outline view is particularly handy if you want to make global edits, get an overview of your presentation, change the sequence of bullets or slides, or apply formatting changes. Master views The master views include Slide, Handout, and Notes view. They're the main slides that store information about the presentation, including background, theme colors, theme fonts, theme effects, placeholder sizes, and positions. The key benefit to working in a master view is that on the slide master, notes master, or handout master, you can make universal style changes to every slide, notes page, or handout associated with your presentation. For more information about working with masters, see Modify a slide master in PowerPoint . Views for delivering your presentation Slide Show view Use Slide Show view to deliver your presentation to your audience. In this view, your slides occupy the full computer screen. Presenter view Presenter view helps you manage your slides while you present by tracking how much time has elapsed, which slide is next, and displaying notes that only you can see (while also allowing you to take meeting notes as you present). Views for preparing and printing your presentation To help you save paper and ink, you'll want to prepare your print job before you print. PowerPoint provides views and settings to help you specify what you want to print (slides, handouts, or notes pages) and how you want those jobs to print (in color, grayscale, black and white, with frames, and more). Slide Sorter view Slide Sorter view gives you a view of your slides in thumbnail form. This view makes it easy for you to sort and organize the sequence of your slides as you prepare to print your slides. Print Preview Print Preview lets you specify settings for what you want to print—handouts, notes pages, and outline, or slides. See also Organize your PowerPoint slides into sections Print your PowerPoint slides, handouts, or notes Start the presentation and see your notes in Presenter view In PowerPoint for the web, when your file is stored on OneDrive, the default view is Reading view. When your file is stored on OneDrive for work or school or SharePoint in Microsoft 365, the default view is Editing view. View for creating your presentation Editing View You can get to Editing View from the View tab or from the task bar at the bottom of the slide window. Editing View is the editing mode where you'll work most frequently to create your slides. Below, Editing View displays slide thumbnails on the left, a large window showing the current slide, and a Notes pane below the current slide where you can type speaker notes for that slide. Slide Sorter view The slide sorter lets you see your slides on the screen in a grid that makes it easy to reorganize them, or organize them into sections, just by dragging and dropping them where you want them. To add a section right click the first slide of your new section and select Add Section . For more information, see Organize your PowerPoint slides into sections . To access Slide Sorter view click the Slide Sorter button on the status bar at the bottom of the window. Views for delivering or viewing a presentation Slide Show view You can get to Slide Show view from the task bar at the bottom of the slide window. Use Slide Show view to deliver your presentation to your audience. Slide Show view occupies the full computer screen, exactly the way your presentation looks on a big screen when your audience sees it. Reading view Note Reading View isn't available for PowerPoint for the web files stored in OneDrive for work or school/SharePoint in Microsoft 365. You can get to Reading View from the View tab or from the task bar at the bottom of the slide window. Most people reviewing a PowerPoint presentation without a presenter will want to use Reading view. It displays the presentation in a full screen like Slide Show view, and it includes a few simple controls to make it easy to flip through the slides. You can also view speaker notes in Reading View. Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026