URL: https://www.aao.org/eye-health/tips-prevention/computer-usage | descarcat cu curl 13.09.2026

Computers, Digital Devices, and Eye Strain - American Academy of Ophthalmology Skip to main content My Dashboard My Education Find an Ophthalmologist Home For Ophthalmologists For Practice Management For Clinical Teams For Public & Patients Eye Health A-Z Symptoms Glasses & Contacts Tips & Prevention News Ask an Ophthalmologist Patient Stories No Cost Eye Exams Español A - Z de Salud Ocular Síntomas Anteojos y Lentes de Contacto Consejos y Prevención Noticias Relatos de Pacientes Exámenes de la vista sin costo English × Shop Log In Create an Account For Ophthalmologists For Practice Management For Clinical Teams For Public & Patients Advocacy About Foundation Museum of the Eye Eye Health A-Z Symptoms Glasses & Contacts Tips & Prevention News Ask an Ophthalmologist Patient Stories No-Cost Eye Exams Español For Public & Patients / Tips & Prevention Young Adults Sections Eye Health Information for Adults Under 40 11 Things Gen-Z and Millennials Can Do Now to Avoid Blindness Later How to Say Bye to Dry Eye Computers, Digital Devices, and Eye Strain How To Use Cosmetics Safely Around Your Eyes Surprising Facts About Diabetes and Your Eyes Eye Health Tips for College Students First Aid Guide: How to Heal a Scratched Eye Computers, Digital Devices, and Eye Strain Leer en Español: Las computadoras, los dispositivos digitales y la fatiga ocular Reviewed By James M Huffman, MD Edited By David Turbert Published Jun. 27, 2024 You may have heard that looking at a computer, smartphone, or other digital screen for long periods of time will permanently damage your eyes . Thankfully, this is not true. Neither are the old adages about “ruining your eyes” from watching too much television or sitting too close to the TV . However, it is true that your eyes may feel uncomfortable if you stare at your screen too long. Digital eye strain affects people of all ages. If you spend hours a day using digital devices, you might notice your vision blurs , and your eyes feel achy and uncomfortable. You may also find your eyes become dry , and will tear or sting. This eye strain is no different from the symptoms you may have when reading, writing, or doing “close work” like sewing for long stretches of time. We are not likely to cut back on cell phone and computer use any time soon. So what can we do about the related eye strain? Here are some tips to relieve your eyes. 1. Blink! Humans normally blink about 15 times in one minute. However, studies show that we only blink about 5 to 7 times in a minute while using computers and other digital screen devices. Blinking is the eye’s way of getting the moisture it needs on its surface. Make a conscious effort to blink as often as possible. This keeps the surface of your eyes from drying out. You might even want to put a sticky note on your computer screen reminding you to blink often! 2. Lube ‘Em Up Use artificial tears to refresh your eyes when they feel dry. If you are often in a dry, warm room, consider using a humidifier to add moisture to the air. 3. Look Up and Away Remember to give your eyes a break occasionally. Make it a habit to look up from the screen and look at an object in the distance for a bit. 4. Use Computer Eyeglasses If you work on a computer for many hours at a time, might find that using computer eyeglasses reduces eye strain. These prescription glasses allow you to focus your eyes specifically at computer screen distance (intermediate distance, which is about 20-26 inches away from your face). Some of these glasses have multifocal lenses to help you quickly shift your focus between close, intermediate and far distances. Be aware that computer glasses for reducing eye strain are not the same as “blue light blocking” glasses . 5. Adjust Brightness and Contrast If your screen glows brighter than your surroundings, your eyes have to work harder to see. Adjust your screen brightness to match the level of light around you. Also, try increasing the contrast on your screen to reduce eye strain. 6. Reduce the Glare The screens on today’s digital devices often have a lot of glare. Try using a matte screen filter to cut glare. Check with your computer store or cell phone store to see what they can provide. 7. Adjust Your Position at the Computer When using a computer, you should be sitting about 25 inches (right about at arm's length) from the screen. Also, position the screen so your eye gazes slightly downward, not straight ahead or up. Contact Lens Users and Digital Devices People who wear contact lenses and use digital devices for long periods of time may find dry eye to be an ongoing problem. Some tips: Give your eyes a break by wearing your glasses instead. Don’t sleep in your contact lenses, even if they are labeled “extended wear.” Always use good contact lens cleaning practices . If your eyes are consistently red, blurry or watery, or they become sensitive to light or painful, see your ophthalmologist. Is Virtual Reality (VR) Bad for Your Eyes? Do you find watching 3-D movies makes your eyes uncomfortable? Or do you experience headaches or feel dizzy when gaming using a virtual reality (VR) headset ? You may have a problem with focusing or depth perception . Augmented reality (AR) and VR headsets work the same way 3-D eyeglasses and movie screens do—by showing different images to each eye to create the illusion of depth. This works because this is how we see objects at different distances in real life. Those objects appear in slightly different places in each eye’s field of vision. In real life or when using these technologies, our eyes track an object that’s coming closer to us by turning inward toward the nose. Our eyes naturally focus closer as an object moves closer. However, with a VR headset or 3-D movie, the screen itself isn’t moving any closer, so our eyes have to focus back out to see clearly. That back-and-forth focusing effort strains your eyes. People who find these devices very hard to watch probably have some trouble getting their eyes to converge properly in real life. Previous How to Say Bye to Dry Eye Next How To Use Cosmetics Safely Around Your Eyes Find an Ophthalmologist Search Advanced Search Learn about an ophthalmologist's role in eye care. Ask an Ophthalmologist Browse Answers Learn about an ophthalmologist's role in eye care. Free EyeSmart Newsletter Get ophthalmologist-reviewed tips and information about eye health and preserving your vision. All content on the Academy’s website is protected by copyright law and the Terms of Service . This content may not be reproduced, copied, or put into any artificial intelligence program, including large language and generative AI models, without permission from the Academy. Contact Us About the Academy Jobs at the Academy Financial Relationships with Industry Medical Disclaimer Privacy Policy Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Terms of Service Statement on Artificial Intelligence Help For Advertisers For Media Ophthalmology Job Center OpenEvidence Partnership OUR SITES EyeWiki FOLLOW THE ACADEMY Medical Professionals Public & Patients Museum of the Eye © American Academy of Ophthalmology 2026 Also of Interest Glasses Blue Light Eye Strain Symptoms