URL: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/get-microsoft-paint-a6b9578c-ed1c-5b09-0699-4ed8115f9aa9 | descarcat cu curl 13.09.2026

Draw, Create, and Edit with Paint | Microsoft Windows This is the Trace Id: 61a24545a28402877d45c4641cb366fc Skip to main content Discover Windows Shop all PCs Shop laptops Shop gaming PCs Shop 2-in-1 PCs Shop performance PCs Shop desktop PCs Compare Help and support For business Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Paint makes it easier to create Paint now comes with new AI-powered tools to help you edit images like a pro and create art like a visionary. Included in the latest version of Windows 11, Paint is your new creative partner. Paint makes it easier to create</p> " data-bi-hn="<p>Paint makes it easier to create</p> " data-bi-compnm="Feature" data-original-text="Open Paint" role=" " aria-label="Open Paint" target="_self" href="https://aka.ms/openpaintminipdp"> Open Paint Image Creator Background Removal Layers Image Creator Background Removal Layers Image Creator Image Creator Background Removal Layers Get Windows 11 Image Creator Image Creator 1 2 is your AI-powered partner, ready to inspire your next creation. Give it a prompt, pick a style, and see where it takes you. Learn more Prompt Enter a text prompt to get AI-generated ideas. 1 2 Choose Pick a style that suits your artistic vision. Create Follow inspiration to make your masterpiece. Manipulate images Crop, flip, rotate, and resize easily with Paint. Brushes Choose from a variety of brush sizes and styles. Drawing tools Create with pencil, fill, color picker, text, magnifier, and more. Background Removal This powerful editing tool uses AI to help you isolate a subject and remove the background with just one click. Background Removal</p> " data-bi-hN="<p>Background Removal</p> " data-bi-compNm="Feature" data-original-text="Open Paint " role=" " aria-label="Open Paint " target="_self" href="https://aka.ms/openpaintminipdp"> Open Paint Edit Fast and familiar editing tools. Manipulate Quickly crop and rotate images. Copy and paste Easily copy images to and from Paint. Stylus pen Use Microsoft Surface Pen or any stylus pen to create. 3 Line sizing From fine lines to broad strokes, you control the look of your piece. Colors Create a new color or use hexadecimal, RGB, or HSV color codes. Layers Layers gives you more control over how you draw, edit, and organize your work to help you add depth and detail to your digital images. Layers</p> " data-bi-hN="<p>Layers</p> " data-bi-compNm="Feature" data-original-text="Open Paint " role=" " aria-label="Open Paint " target="_self" href="https://aka.ms/openpaintminipdp"> Open Paint Control Edit single layers without affecting others. Manage Merge and reorder layers to manage your creation. Compose Easily create intricate compositions and designs. Import/export Add images from other sources and send them in most file formats. User-friendly Artists of any level can easily use Paint. Viewing options Be precise with rulers and graphs or resize as a thumbnail. Paint: Refreshed for Windows 11 Get the latest version of Windows 11 to use these powerful new tools in Paint. Paint: Refreshed for Windows 11</p> " data-bi-hN="<p>Paint: Refreshed for Windows 11</p> " data-bi-compNm="Feature" data-original-text="Shop Windows 11 PCs " role=" " aria-label="Shop Windows 11 PCs" target="_self" href="https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/view-all-devices"> Shop Windows 11 PCs Frequently asked questions Expand All | Collapse All What is Paint? Paint is a versatile and user-friendly graphics editing app in Windows for you to create, edit, and manipulate images and drawings. Paint is great for simple image cropping, resizing, drawing, and adding basic shapes and text to images. It offers a straightforward interface with a range of AI-powered tools 1 and features for anyone who needs to perform basic graphic editing tasks. Its simplicity and ease of use make Paint a valuable tool for quick and easy image editing. How do I open Paint in Windows 11? You can open Paint in Windows 11 by following these steps: Click on the Windows Start button . Type " Paint " in the search bar, then press Enter . The Paint app should open. What’s the difference between the Photos app and Paint? The Photos app is primarily designed for viewing, organizing, and editing photos and images. It's more focused on managing your image library and making simple adjustments. The Photos app allows you to view and organize your photo collection, crop and rotate images, apply filters and basic enhancements, create simple video slideshows, and share photos with ease. Paint is more suitable for creating simple drawings and performing basic image editing tasks. Paint provides tools for freehand drawing, inserting shapes, filling colors, cropping images, and adding text. It's a more versatile tool for creating original artwork or making basic edits to images. What are some new Paint features? New Paint features are included in the latest Windows 11 update: AI-powered Image Creator 1 , and Background Removal, and a much-requested capability, Layers. These new Paint tools help you create digital images like a pro, spark creativity with AI-generated inspiration, and allow anyone, from novice to pro, to manipulate, manage, save, and share image files in most file formats. What are the drawing tools in Paint? Paint includes these tools: Pencil: For freehand drawing. Brush: For painting with various brush styles and sizes. Fill with color: To fill closed areas with a selected color. Shapes: To draw shapes like lines, rectangles, and circles. Text: To add text to your images. Eraser: To remove parts of your drawing or image. Selection tools: To select and manipulate specific areas. Zoom: To zoom in and out of your canvas. Can I use Paint to edit photos or images? Yes, you can use Paint to edit photos or images. Paint provides basic tools for cropping, resizing, drawing, adding text, and making simple adjustments to images. Is there a way to resize an image in Paint? Yes, you can resize an image in Paint by selecting the "Resize" option from the "Home" tab. You can then specify the new dimensions for your image in pixels or as a percentage of the original size. Can I save my work in different file formats with Paint? Yes, you can save your work in various file formats, including PNG, JPEG, BMP, and GIF, among others. Paint allows you to choose the format when you save your image. How do I add text to an image in Paint? To add text to an image in Paint, use the "Text" tool in the "Home" tab. Click on the canvas where you want to add text, and a text box will appear. Type your text in the box, customize the font, then select a size and color using the options in the toolbar. How can I crop an image in Paint? You can crop an image in Paint by selecting the portion of the image you want to keep using the "Select" tool and then clicking the "Crop" button in the "Home" tab. This will remove the unselected portion of the image. How much does Paint cost? Paint is included in Windows. Image Creator is a new feature 1 included in the latest Windows 11 update, along with Background Removal and Layers. When you’re ready to try Image Creator, we’ll give you 50 credits to get you started (1 credit per use). 2 Looking for more? Get help with your transition to Windows 11, and make the most of your Windows experience. Upgrade to Windows 11 Ready to make the switch? See if your Windows PC is eligible by selecting the Start button, then going to Settings > Update & Security > Windows Update . See system requirements Become an insider Register with the Windows Insider Program and start engaging with engineers to help shape the future of Windows. Learn more Screens simulated, subject to change. Feature availability and rollout timing may vary. [1] Requires Microsoft account. Timing of feature delivery varies by device. Feature availability may vary by market. Available at launch in the United States, Canada, Germany, France, Australia, United Kingdom, and Italy. English inputs only for now. [2] 50 credits available for initial use of Image Creator. One credit applied per use. Credit system subject to change once preview is complete. [3] Hardware dependent. Requires Windows PC with touchscreen capability. Follow Microsoft Windows Share this page Back to top Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads
