URL: https://www.ccohs.ca/oshanswers/ergonomics/office/chair_adjusting.html | descarcat cu curl 13.09.2026

CCOHS: Office Ergonomics - How to Adjust Office Chairs --> Skip to main content Skip to site information Canada.ca Services Departments Language selection Français Menu Menu Scheduled maintenance - Thursday, July 12 at 5:00 PM EDT We expect this update to take about an hour. Access to this website will be unavailable during this time. Search Search website Search Site menu Legislation Acts and Regulations Due Diligence Health and Safety Programs Internal Responsibility System Rights and Responsibilities Standards WHMIS/GHS/(M)SDS Legislation – Main Page Hazards Chemical Ergonomic Health Physical Psychosocial Safety Workplace Hazards – Main Page Workers Aging Workers Vulnerable Workers Young/New Workers Workers – Main Page Health and Wellness Impairment Mental Health Promotion Program Development Stress Violence/Bullying Work-Life Balance Health and Wellness - Main Page Programs Programs Management Systems Programs – Main Page I am looking for... Apps and Software Business Safety Portal CANManage - SDS Management Courses - Online Databases ISO/IEC Standards --> Health and Safety Toolkit Podcasts Posters and Infographics Promotion Tools Publications All Products and Services – Main Page HELP Ask a Question (Safety InfoLine) Fact Sheets (OSH Answers) Product Support Product FAQs Copyright Permission Help – Main Page LOGIN Business Safety Portal Databases eCourses Shopping Account enviroOSH CANManage Teaching Tools You are here: Office Ergonomics - How to Adjust Office Chairs Home OSH Answers Fact Sheets Ergonomics Office Ergonomics Office Ergonomics - How to Adjust Office Chairs Office Ergonomics Download PDF Office Ergonomics - How to Adjust Office Chairs On this page What is the most important part about having a good workstation? What should I consider when selecting a chair? What is so controversial about armrests? How do I adjust a chair for my height? What adjustments should I make if the workstation (desk) is at a fixed height? What is the most important part about having a good workstation? Back to top The office workstation should let the worker sit and carry out their duties in comfort while allowing for voluntary changes in the working position. There are three contact areas in the work space that affect the worker's posture: the seat, the work surface (commonly it is a desk top or keyboard) and the floor. To ensure the most comfortable posture possible, two of these factors have to be adjustable. If you can afford to do nothing else, a fully adjustable chair is a "must". The other, and perhaps the most preferable option, would be a fully adjustable desk. However, the price of such a desk may not make this option practical. Another effective (and cheaper) option is to use an adjustable chair and footrest to secure postural comfort. What should I consider when selecting a chair? Back to top A basic rule of ergonomics is that there is no such thing as an "average" person. However, providing a chair specifically designed for each individual is not practical. The only solution is to provide workers with fully adjustable chairs that can accommodate a maximum range of people (typically around 90 percent of the population; workers falling in the ranges of 5% of the shortest and the tallest will need custom-made chairs). Choose a chair with: Controls that are easy to operate from a sitting position. A seat that adjusts for both height and tilt. A seat that does not put pressure on the back of thighs or knees. A seat with a front edge that curves towards the floor. Breathable, non-slippery fabric on the seat. A backrest is shaped to support the lower back. A stable five-point base. Wheels or casters that are suitable for the type of flooring. A swivel mechanism. Armrests that can be adjusted to the elbow height when your upper arms are hanging down and your forearms are at about a 90-degree angle to the upper arms. Armrests that do not interfere with free movements within the workstation. You may also wish to check the OSH Answers document, The Ergonomic Chair , for more details on how to purchase a chair. What is so controversial about armrests? Back to top Armrests were traditionally not recommended because they can prevent the users from getting close enough to the desk. However, armrests that extend 25 cm (10 inches), or less, from the back of seat may be appropriate. People using chairs fitted with these shorter armrests can move their chairs closer to their workstations. The armrests give them a place to rest their arms, which, in turn, takes some of the load off their shoulders and neck. How do I adjust a chair for my height? Back to top Stand in front of the chair. Adjust the height so the highest point of the seat (when in the horizontal position) is just below the kneecap. Sit on the chair and keep your feet flat on the floor. Check that the clearance between the front edge of the seat and the lower part of the legs (your calves) fits a clenched fist (about 5 cm or 2 inches). Adjust the back rest forwards and backwards as well as up and down so that it fits the hollow in your lower back. Sit upright with your arms hanging loosely by your sides. Bend your elbows at about a right angle (90 degrees) and adjust the armrest(s) height until they barely touch the undersides of the elbows. Remove the armrests from the chair if this level can not be achieved or if the armrests, in their lowest adjustment, elevate your elbows even slightly. Tilt the seat itself forward or backward if you prefer. Different office tasks require different equipment, accessories and layouts. Nonetheless, the chair and its adjustment remain constant for the majority of setups in a typical office environment. What adjustments should I make if the workstation (desk) is at a fixed height? Back to top Once your chair is properly adjusted for your height, check if you can sit at the workstation comfortably with your legs underneath. If you cannot fit your legs under the workstation or there is not enough space to move them freely, your workstation is too low for you and you should not use such a workstation on a regular basis! If you can sit comfortably but need to elevate your arms in order to place them over the work surface, your workstation is too high. Adjust the chair height so your elbows are about the same height as the work surface. Use a footrest if you cannot place your feet flat on the floor. The footrest should be adjustable and support both feet. Keep feet flat and firm on the footrest. Fact sheet confirmed current: 2025-02-04 Fact sheet last revised: 2014-03-10 Disclaimer Although every effort is made to ensure the accuracy, currency and completeness of the information, CCOHS does not guarantee, warrant, represent or undertake that the information provided is correct, accurate or current. CCOHS is not liable for any loss, claim, or demand arising directly or indirectly from any use or reliance upon the information. OSH Answers Fact Sheets Search All Fact Sheets Back to Office Ergonomics Related Fact Sheets Office Ergonomics - Sit/Stand Desk Working in a Sitting Position - Overview Working in a Sitting Position - What to Avoid while Sitting CCOHS Features Need more help? Contact our Safety InfoLine 905-572-2981 . Toll free 1-800-668-4284 (in Canada and the United States) Ask a Question CCOHS Safe Work App Have the answers at your fingertips. Download the CCOHS Safe Work app for free. Related Content Office Ergonomics A practical introduction to office ergonomics, focusing on issues and injuries related to the use of computers and other office equipment. View Course View All Courses Office Ergonomics Safety Guide Learn how to identify ergonomic hazards in the office and take action. View Publication View All Publications Add page to saved links Return to Portal Add page to saved links Success! This page has been added as a saved link. Error! This page could not be added as a saved link. Please try again later. Opens in a new window Top of Page Date modified: 2025-08-28 Site information Terms and conditions Transparency About Us Council of Governors Corporate Reports Projects and Partnerships Scholarships Careers Newsroom News Releases Media Advisories Hot Topics In the News Contact Us Online Form Phone Mail Location Stay Connected Facebook Threads Instagram LinkedIn Newsletters Events Government of Canada footer Health Travel Service Canada Jobs Canada.ca