URL: https://www.ccohs.ca/oshanswers/ergonomics/office/risk_factors.html | descarcat cu curl 13.09.2026

CCOHS: Office Ergonomics - Major Work-Related Risk Factors --> Skip to main content Skip to site information Canada.ca Services Departments Language selection Français Menu Menu Scheduled maintenance - Thursday, July 12 at 5:00 PM EDT We expect this update to take about an hour. Access to this website will be unavailable during this time. Search Search website Search Site menu Legislation Acts and Regulations Due Diligence Health and Safety Programs Internal Responsibility System Rights and Responsibilities Standards WHMIS/GHS/(M)SDS Legislation – Main Page Hazards Chemical Ergonomic Health Physical Psychosocial Safety Workplace Hazards – Main Page Workers Aging Workers Vulnerable Workers Young/New Workers Workers – Main Page Health and Wellness Impairment Mental Health Promotion Program Development Stress Violence/Bullying Work-Life Balance Health and Wellness - Main Page Programs Programs Management Systems Programs – Main Page I am looking for... Apps and Software Business Safety Portal CANManage - SDS Management Courses - Online Databases ISO/IEC Standards --> Health and Safety Toolkit Podcasts Posters and Infographics Promotion Tools Publications All Products and Services – Main Page HELP Ask a Question (Safety InfoLine) Fact Sheets (OSH Answers) Product Support Product FAQs Copyright Permission Help – Main Page LOGIN Business Safety Portal Databases eCourses Shopping Account enviroOSH CANManage Teaching Tools You are here: Office Ergonomics - Major Work-Related Risk Factors Home OSH Answers Fact Sheets Ergonomics Office Ergonomics Office Ergonomics - Major Work-Related Risk Factors Office Ergonomics Download PDF Office Ergonomics - Major Work-Related Risk Factors On this page What are factors that can lead to ergonomic-related injuries in an office setting? How does a fixed body posture affect your body? Where does poor work posture originate? How can repetitious and monotonous movements affect your body? How a high pace of work affects your body? What are factors that can lead to ergonomic-related injuries in an office setting? Back to top Injuries or illnesses resulting from sitting for long periods can be a serious occupational health and safety problem. While activities typically carried out in an office such as typing, data entry, and sitting-based activities are not particularly hazardous for a worker who does them only occasionally, the situation becomes more critical when done for long periods every working day. It is very important to know that musculoskeletal injuries (MSIs), and specifically, repetitive motion injuries (RMIs) rarely originate from one event or a particular factor. Generally speaking, they develop over time from a variety of factors. Work-related factors that present the greatest risk for musculoskeletal injuries involve: fixed and constrained postures that are frequently awkward, uncomfortable and maintained for too long a time repetitious and forceful hand movements a high pace of work How does a fixed body posture affect your body? Back to top Because the human body was designed to move, it cannot tolerate immobility for long. Sitting at a desk for long periods of times can be unhealthy and damaging to the musculoskeletal system. Holding the upper body still in an upright position requires a lot of muscular effort and contributes to what is called a static load. Both holding one's head at the optimum distance from the screen and document holder and maintaining one's arms in the proper typing position increase the static load on the whole upper body, and on the neck and shoulders in particular. The reduced blood supply that follows not only accelerates fatigue, but also leaves the musculoskeletal system susceptible to RMIs. Please see the OSH Answers documents on Working in a Sitting Position for more information. Where does poor work posture originate? Back to top Poor posture can be a result of: Non-adjustable or otherwise unsuitable workstations The layout of the workstation is inadequate or is not suitable for its user Lack of knowledge and experience on how to set up an adjustable workstation properly according to the worker's needs (considering both body build and job tasks) Unsuitable job design that requires a worker to sit uninterrupted for longer than an hour at a time Lack of education and training, resulting in a lack of awareness How can repetitious and monotonous movements affect your body? Back to top Holding the upper body in one position allows the upper limbs to engage in the fine hand movements used in typing and operating a mouse (categorized as dynamic load). These are common examples of repetitious and monotonous movements. Repeated hundreds or thousands of times, hour after hour, day after day, year after year, these movements strain and gradually cause "wear and tear" on the muscles and tendons in the forearms, wrists and fingers. People who do repetitive work with their bodies in fixed and static positions are even more susceptible to getting RMIs. Discomfort, numbness and tingling are the danger signs. If these signals are ignored, pain, chronic problems and long-term disability are likely to follow. More information on the interaction between the movements made by neck, shoulders and hands is in our OSH Answers document on Work-related Musculoskeletal Disorders - Risk Factors . How a high pace of work affects your body? Back to top Like repetitive and unvarying movements, a high work pace is quite a common reality in most offices. Regardless of whether it arises from periodic overload or from uneven distribution of work, a regular high speed of work contributes to the development of MSIs very strongly. The pace of work determines how much time working muscles have for rest and recovery between movements. The faster the pace, the shorter and less productive the recovery times become. This combination increases the risk for RMIs. A person may be able to set his or her work pace and adapt to the stresses that result. However, more harmful to one's health are external factors that increase the work pace and which are beyond the person's control, such as: having tight or frequently changing deadlines knowing your performance is being monitored by some electronic system being overloaded with work The result is that the worker is denied any control over the timing and the speed of work, creating the feeling of "always being in a hurry." This haste and resulting stress cause the body muscles to tense up, which, in turn, significantly accelerates the risk for developing RMIs. Fact sheet last revised: 2023-07-05 Disclaimer Although every effort is made to ensure the accuracy, currency and completeness of the information, CCOHS does not guarantee, warrant, represent or undertake that the information provided is correct, accurate or current. CCOHS is not liable for any loss, claim, or demand arising directly or indirectly from any use or reliance upon the information. OSH Answers Fact Sheets Search All Fact Sheets Back to Office Ergonomics Related Fact Sheets Working in a Sitting Position - What to Avoid while Sitting Work-related Musculoskeletal Disorders (WMSDs) - Risk Factors Office - General CCOHS Features Need more help? Contact our Safety InfoLine 905-572-2981 . Toll free 1-800-668-4284 (in Canada and the United States) Ask a Question CCOHS Safe Work App Have the answers at your fingertips. Download the CCOHS Safe Work app for free. Related Content Office Ergonomics A practical introduction to office ergonomics, focusing on issues and injuries related to the use of computers and other office equipment. View Course View All Courses Position for Safety and Comfort Don't be a slouch when it comes to sitting properly at work. View Poster View All Posters Sitting at Work Infographic View Poster View All Posters Office Ergonomics Safety Guide Learn how to identify ergonomic hazards in the office and take action. View Publication View All Publications Add page to saved links Return to Portal Add page to saved links Success! This page has been added as a saved link. Error! This page could not be added as a saved link. Please try again later. Opens in a new window Top of Page Date modified: 2025-08-28 Site information Terms and conditions Transparency About Us Council of Governors Corporate Reports Projects and Partnerships Scholarships Careers Newsroom News Releases Media Advisories Hot Topics In the News Contact Us Online Form Phone Mail Location Stay Connected Facebook Threads Instagram LinkedIn Newsletters Events Government of Canada footer Health Travel Service Canada Jobs Canada.ca