URL: https://web.archive.org/web/2026id_/https://www.osha.gov/etools/computer-workstations/positions (osha.gov direct = 403 la curl) | descarcat cu curl 13.09.2026

eTools : Computer Workstations - Positions | Occupational Safety and Health Administration Skip to main content An official website of the United States government. Here’s how you know Here’s how you know The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. U.S. Department of Labor MENU Occupational Safety and Health Administration Contact Us FAQ A to Z Index Select Target Language Select Language Afrikaans Albanian Amharic Arabic Armenian Azerbaijani Basque Belarusian Bengali Bosnian Bulgarian Catalan Cebuano Chichewa Chinese (Simplified) Chinese (Traditional) Corsican Croatian Czech Danish Dutch Esperanto Estonian Filipino Finnish French Frisian Galician Georgian German Greek Gujarati Haitian Creole Hausa Hawaiian Hebrew Hindi Hmong Hungarian Icelandic Igbo Indonesian Irish Italian Japanese Javanese Kannada Kazakh Khmer Korean Kurdish (Kurmanji) Kyrgyz Lao Latin Latvian Lithuanian Luxembourgish Macedonian Malagasy Malay Malayalam Maltese Maori Marathi Mongolian Myanmar (Burmese) Nepali Norwegian Pashto Persian Polish Portuguese Punjabi Romanian Russian Samoan Scots Gaelic Serbian Sesotho Shona Sindhi Sinhala Slovak Slovenian Somali Spanish Sundanese Swahili Swedish Tajik Tamil Telugu Thai Turkish Ukrainian Urdu Uzbek Vietnamese Welsh Xhosa Yiddish Yoruba Zulu Languages اَلْعَرَبِيَّةُ (Arabic) Sinugbuanong Binisayâ (Cebuano) 简体字 (Chinese-Simplified) 繁体字 (Chinese-Traditional) English Français (French) Kreyòl ayisyen (Haitian Creole) 한국어 (Korean) नेपाली (Nepali) Polski (Polish) Português (Portuguese (Brazilian)) Русский (Russian) Af-Soomaali (Somali) Español (Spanish) Українська (Ukrainian) Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Search Search OSHA Back OSHA About OSHA Find an OSHA Office State Plans Job Safety and Health Poster Careers Freedom of Information Act Speaker Requests Standards Back Standards Law and Regulations Federal Registers Open for Comment Regulatory Agenda Letters of Interpretation Training Requirements by Standard Enforcement Back Enforcement OSHA Enforcement Whistleblower Protection Program Annual Inspection Data Topics Back Topics For Employers Worker Rights Workers Memorial Fall Prevention Hazard Communication Heat Personal Protective Equipment Suicide Prevention Trenching and Excavation By Sector Agriculture Construction Federal Agencies Healthcare Maritime Oil and Gas Warehousing Key Topics Recordkeeping Requirements and Forms Safety and Health Programs Support After a Loss Whistleblower Protections HELP AND RESOURCES Back Help and Resources Data Establishment Search Fatality Reports File a Complaint Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Publications Safety and Health Topics Pages Videos Compliance Assistance Compliance Assistance Specialists Consultation Services Cooperative Programs Small Business Resources Training Training Requirements and Resources Outreach Training Program (10- and 30-hour Cards) Find a Trainer Replace a Card Avoid Card Fraud OSHA Training Institute Education Centers Find a Center Search for Classes Susan Harwood Training Grants NEWS Back News Federal Registers Media Center News Releases QuickTakes Newsletter Información Rápida Contact Us FAQ A to Z Index Languages اَلْعَرَبِيَّةُ (Arabic) Sinugbuanong Binisayâ (Cebuano) 简体字 (Chinese-Simplified) 繁体字 (Chinese-Traditional) English Français (French) Kreyòl ayisyen (Haitian Creole) 한국어 (Korean) नेपाली (Nepali) Polski (Polish) Português (Portuguese (Brazilian)) Русский (Russian) Af-Soomaali (Somali) Español (Spanish) Українська (Ukrainian) Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) Home eTools Computer Workstations : Positions Computer Workstations eTool Computer Workstations Menu Home Additional Information References Site Map Credits Good Working Positions Workstation Components Chairs Desks Document Holders Keyboards Monitors Pointer/Mouse Telephones Wrist/Palm Support Checklists Evaluation Purchasing Guide Work Process Workstation Environment Computer Workstations » Good Working Positions To understand the best way to set up a computer workstation, it is helpful to understand the concept of neutral body positioning. This is a comfortable working posture in which your joints are naturally aligned. Working with the body in a neutral position reduces stress and strain on the muscles, tendons, and skeletal system and reduces your risk of developing a musculoskeletal disorder (MSD). The following are important considerations when attempting to maintain neutral body postures while working at the computer workstation: Hands , wrists , and forearms are straight, in-line and roughly parallel to the floor. Head is level, forward facing, and balanced. Generally it is in-line with the torso . Shoulders are relaxed and upper arms hang normally at the side of the body. Elbows stay in close to the body and are bent between 90 and 120 degrees. Feet are fully supported by the floor or a footrest may be used if the desk height is not adjustable. Back is fully supported with appropriate lumbar support when sitting vertical or leaning back slightly. Thighs and hips are supported and generally parallel to the floor. Knees are about the same height as the hips with the feet slightly forward Regardless of how good your working posture is, working in the same posture or sitting still for prolonged periods is not healthy. You should change your working position frequently throughout the day in the following ways: Make small adjustments to your chair or backrest. Stretch your fingers, hands, arms, and torso. Stand up and walk around for a few minutes periodically. Perform some of your tasks in standing: computing, reading, phone, meetings. These four reference postures are examples of body posture changes that all provide neutral positioning for the body. Upright Sitting Upright sitting posture . The user's torso and neck are approximately vertical and in-line, the thighs are approximately horizontal, and the lower legs are vertical. Figure 1. Upright sitting posture Figure 2. The user's torso and neck are approximately vertical and in-line, the thighs are approximately horizontal, and the lower legs are vertical. Standing Standing posture . The user's legs, torso, neck, and head are approximately in-line and vertical with feet slightly apart. The user may also elevate one foot on a rest while in this posture. Figure 3. Standing posture Figure 4. The user's legs, torso, neck, and head are approximately in-line and vertical with feet slightly apart. Declined Sitting Declined sitting posture . The user's thighs are inclined with the buttocks higher than the knee and the angle between the thighs and the torso is greater than 90 degrees. The torso is vertical or slightly reclined and the legs are vertical. This position should not inhibit the ability to easily reach the keyboard or view the monitor. Figure 5. Declined sitting position Figure 6. The user's thighs are inclined with the buttocks higher than the knee and the angle between the thighs and the torso is greater than 90 degrees. The torso is vertical or slightly reclined and the legs are vertical. Reclined Sitting Reclined sitting posture . The user's torso and neck are straight and recline between 105 and 120 degrees from the thighs. Figure 7. Reclined sitting posture Figure 8. The user's torso and neck are straight and recline between 105 and 120 degrees from the thighs. Scroll to Top OSHA Standards Enforcement Topics Media Center Contact Us U.S. Department of Labor Occupational Safety and Health Administration 200 Constitution Ave NW Washington, DC 20210 1-800-321-OSHA 1-800-321-6742 www.osha.gov Federal Government White House Disaster Recovery Assistance DisasterAssistance.gov USA.gov No Fear Act Data U.S. Office of Special Counsel Occupational Safety & Health Frequently Asked Questions A - Z Index Freedom of Information Act - OSHA Read The OSHA Newsletter Subscribe to the OSHA Newsletter OSHA Publications Office of Inspector General ABOUT THE SITE Freedom of Information Act Disclaimers Plug-ins Used on DOL.gov Accessibility Statement Privacy & Security Statement Important Website Notices Site Map Connect With OSHA Facebook X Instagram Youtube Linkedin Site Map Important Website Notices Privacy & Security Statement