 Undo, redo, or repeat an action | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Undo, redo, or repeat an action Applies To Excel for Microsoft 365 Word for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 Excel for Microsoft 365 for Mac Word for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac Excel 2024 PowerPoint 2024 Excel 2024 for Mac Word 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 for Mac Excel 2021 Word 2021 PowerPoint 2021 Excel 2021 for Mac Word 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 for Mac Get help with Copilot Tell me about undo, redo, or repeat an action. You can undo, redo, or repeat many actions in Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, and Excel. You can undo changes, even after you have saved, and then save again, as long as you are within the undo limits (By default Office saves the last 100 undoable actions). Windows macOS Web Undo an action To undo an action press Ctrl+Z on your keyboard, or select Undo on the Quick Access Toolbar. You can press Undo (or Ctrl+Z) repeatedly if you want to undo multiple steps. Note For more information about the Quick Access Toolbar, see Customize the Quick Access Toolbar . You can't undo some actions, such as selecting commands on the File tab or saving a file. If you can't undo an action, the Undo command changes to Can't Undo . To undo several actions at the same time, select the arrow next to Undo , select the actions in the list that you want to undo, and then select the list. Tip If you're not able to undo the changes you wish to revert, you may be able to restore a previous version of the file. See Restore a previous version of a file in OneDrive or OneDrive for Business Redo an action To redo something you've undone, press Ctrl+Y or F4. (If F4 doesn't seem to work, you may need to press the F-Lock key or Fn Key , then F4) on your keyboard, or select Redo on the Quick Access toolbar. (The Redo button only appears after you've undone an action.) Note For more information about the Quick Access Toolbar, see Customize the Quick Access Toolbar . Repeat an action To repeat something simple, such as a paste operation, press Ctrl+Y or F4 (If F4 doesn't seem to work, you may need to press the F-Lock key or Fn Key, then F4) on your keyboard, or select Repeat on the Quick Access Toolbar. Note By default, the Repeat command is not available on the Quick Access Toolbar in Excel. If you want to repeat the last action, you need to add the Repeat command to the Quick Access Toolbar first. See Add a command to the Quick Access Toolbar that isn’t on the ribbon for steps. Some actions, such as using a function in a cell in Excel, can’t be repeated. If you can't repeat the last action, the Repeat command changes to Can't Repeat . Advanced: Modify the undo limit Excel and all other Office programs have a default undo/redo maximum of 100 actions. However, you can change this by adding an entry in the Microsoft Windows registry. Important Remember that some actions, such as clicking commands on the File tab or saving a file, can't be undone, and running a macro in Excel will clear the undo stack, making the action unavailable. Warning Increasing the number of undo levels should be done with caution and moderation: the more you increase the number of undo levels, the more random access memory (RAM) Excel requires to store the undo history, which affects the performance of Excel. The following procedure uses the Registry Editor to change the number of undo levels for Excel , although you can do the same in Word or PowerPoint. Close any Office programs that are running. In Windows 10 or Windows 8, right-click (or long-press) the Start button, and then select Run . In the search box or the Run window, type regedit and press Enter. Depending on your version of Windows, you may be asked to confirm that you want to open Registry Editor. In Registry Editor, expand one of the following registry subkeys, as appropriate for the version of Excel that you are running: Excel 2016: HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Office\16.0\Excel\Options On the Edit menu, point to New , and then select DWORD Value . Select New Value #1 , type UndoHistory , and then press ENTER. On the Edit menu, select Modify . In the Edit DWORD Value dialog box, select Decimal under Base . Type a value in the Value box, select OK , and then exit Registry Editor. Start Excel. Excel stores an undo history for the number of actions that you specified in step 7. Related links Customize the Quick Access Toolbar (Windows) Configure or turn off automatic text formatting (AutoFormat) Undo an action Press + Z , or select Undo in the upper-left corner of the ribbon, until you've fixed the issue. You can't undo some actions, such as selecting commands on the File menu or saving a file. If you can't undo an action, the Undo command changes to Can't Undo . To undo several actions at the same time, select the arrow next to Undo , select the actions in the list that you want to undo, and then select the list. Tip If you're not able to undo the changes you wish to revert, you may be able to restore a previous version of the file. See Restore a previous version of a file in OneDrive or OneDrive for Business Redo an action To redo something you've undone, press + Y , or select Redo in the upper-left corner of the ribbon. (The Redo button only appears after you've undone an action.) Repeat an action To repeat something simple, such as a paste operation, press + Y , or select Repeat in the upper-left corner of the ribbon. In Word for the web, PowerPoint for the web, and Excel for the web, you can undo or redo basic actions. More advanced options are available in desktop versions of Office. Undo an action Press Ctrl+Z or select ( Undo ) in the ribbon until you've fixed the issue. You can't undo some actions, such as selecting commands on the File tab or saving a file. If you can't undo an action, the Undo command is dimmed. . Tip If you're not able to undo the changes you wish to revert, you may be able to restore a previous version of the file. See Restore a previous version of a file in OneDrive or OneDrive for Business Redo an action To redo something you've undone, press Ctrl+Y or select ( Redo ) in the ribbon. Repeat an action To repeat something simple, such as a paste operation, press Ctrl+Y on your keyboard or select Repeat on the Home tab. Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026 