=== https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/answers/questions/5240152/slide-show-will-not-advance-automatically-in-power
...  screen before the presentation automatically advances to the next slide. Apply to all slides: After setting the transition and timing, click on Apply To All on the Transitions tab. Check for animations: If your slides have animations that require a click to advance them, the slide will not automatically advance until all the animations set to “ click to advance ” have completed. We look forward to your next response. Regards, Jason Guer Microsoft Community Moderator Was this answer helpful? Yes
... er setting the transition and timing, click on Apply To All on the Transitions tab. Check for animations: If your slides have animations that require a click to advance them, the slide will not automatically advance until all the animations set to “ click to advance ” have completed. We look forward to your next response. Regards, Jason Guer Microsoft Community Moderator Was this answer helpful? Yes No 2 people found this answer helpful. 0 comments No comments Anonymous 2023-09-18T19:27:44+00:00
=== https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/answers/questions/5654702/slide-show-and-animation-automation
...  does not have a built-in feature or setting that allows a slide to automatically advance immediately after the last animation finishes while still supporting animations that wait for a click. This is because PowerPoint separates animation triggers (On Click, After Previous, With Previous) from slide transitions, and when an animation is set to On Click, the system will always wait for user input. I explored several approaches, including using VBA macros to calculate the total animation duration
... tely after the last animation finishes while still supporting animations that wait for a click. This is because PowerPoint separates animation triggers (On Click, After Previous, With Previous) from slide transitions, and when an animation is set to On Click, the system will always wait for user input. I explored several approaches, including using VBA macros to calculate the total animation duration and schedule an automatic slide advance. While these solutions work for slides where all animati
... proaches, including using VBA macros to calculate the total animation duration and schedule an automatic slide advance. While these solutions work for slides where all animations run automatically, they do not fully achieve the desired behavior when On Click animations are involved, you still need to click to proceed. I believe this is an advanced scenario that could be very valuable for many users. For that reason, I strongly recommend submitting feedback directly to Microsoft through the Feedb
=== https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/answers/questions/5040800/powerpoint-slides-not-advancing-automatically
... l support. Download Microsoft Edge More info about Internet Explorer and Microsoft Edge PowerPoint slides not advancing automatically Anonymous 2020-04-24T19:25:47+00:00 I'm trying to set up my slides to advance automatically so a user won't have to click to advance. Under "Transitions" and "Advance Slide" I have the checkbox marked with the proper timing of each slide. Under "Slide Show" I have the checkbox marked under "Use Timings." I've even tried several times to record the slideshow, in ca
... ! Was this answer helpful? Yes No 80+ people found this answer helpful. 0 comments No comments Anonymous 2020-07-12T11:14:44+00:00 Hello, I have some possible solutions as to how this issue can be fixed. If your slides have animations that require a click to advance them, the slide will not automatically advance until all the animations set to "click to advance" have completed. If you have any animations, set them up so that they occur based on your own timings, which you can modify in the Anima
... onymous 2020-07-12T11:14:44+00:00 Hello, I have some possible solutions as to how this issue can be fixed. If your slides have animations that require a click to advance them, the slide will not automatically advance until all the animations set to "click to advance" have completed. If you have any animations, set them up so that they occur based on your own timings, which you can modify in the Animations Pane of PowerPoint. If all animations are not set to "advance on click", then any timings s
