URL: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/available-chart-types-in-office-a6187218-807e-4103-9e0a-27cdb19afb90
Fisier brut: C:\00\Projects\LearningHub\_campaign\omul_la_calculator_2026_09_13\F_evaluari\cls8\lectia5-grafice\surse\raw\tipuri_en.html
Titlu pagina (text brut): Available chart types in Office | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microso

[Clustered column] aparitii: 3
   … a worksheet can be plotted in a column chart. A column chart typically displays categories along the horizontal (category) axis and values along the vertical (value) axis, as shown in this chart: Types of column charts Clustered column and 3-D clustered column A clustered column chart shows values in 2-D columns. A 3-D clustered column chart shows columns in 3-D format, but it doesn't use a third value axis (depth axis). Use this chart…
   …ample, we used a column chart to show the number of homes sold between January and June and then used a line chart to make it easier for readers to quickly identify the average sales price by month. Type of combo charts Clustered column – line and clustered column – line on secondary axis With or without a secondary axis, this chart combines a clustered column and line chart, showing some data series as columns and others as lines in th…

[all of which represent parts of the whole pie] aparitii: 1
   …he whole pie. Consider using a pie chart when: You have only one data series. None of the values in your data are negative. Almost none of the values in your data are zero values. You have no more than seven categories, all of which represent parts of the whole pie. Types of pie charts Pie and 3-D pie Pie charts show the contribution of each value to a total in a 2-D or 3-D format. You can pull out slices of a pie chart manually to emph…

[Line charts] aparitii: 5
   …rranged in columns or rows on a worksheet can be plotted in a line chart. In a line chart, category data is distributed evenly along the horizontal axis, and all value data is distributed evenly along the vertical axis. Line charts can show continuous data over time on an evenly scaled axis, so they're ideal for showing trends in data at equal intervals, like months, quarters, or fiscal years. Types of line charts Line and line with mar…
   …e approximate, use a 100% stacked line chart without markers. 3-D line 3-D line charts show each row or column of data as a 3-D ribbon. A 3-D line chart has horizontal, vertical, and depth axes that you can change. Note Line charts work best when you have multiple data series in your chart—if you have only one data series, consider using a scatter chart instead. Stacked line charts sum the data, which might not be the result you want. I…

[Bar charts] aparitii: 2
   …l 100%. Note Doughnut charts aren't easy to read. You may want to use a stacked column charts or Stacked bar chart instead. Bar chart Data that's arranged in columns or rows on a worksheet can be plotted in a bar chart. Bar charts illustrate comparisons among individual items. In a bar chart, the categories are typically organized along the vertical axis, and the values along the horizontal axis. Consider using a bar chart when: The axi…
   …ges are displayed in data labels, each ring will total 100%. Bar chart Data that is arranged in columns or rows on an Excel sheet can be plotted in a bar chart. Use bar charts to show comparisons among individual items. Bar charts have the following chart subtypes: Clustered bar and 3-D Clustered bar chart Compares values across categories. In a clustered bar chart, the categories are typically organized along the vertical axis, and the…
