Manually create a table of contents in PowerPoint | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Manually create a table of contents in PowerPoint Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016 Get help with Copilot How do I make hyperlinks to the individual slides in table? What if I can't navigate through slides? Give me manually create a table of contents. You can manually create a summary or table of contents slide by copying slide titles onto a new slide and (optionally) making a hyperlink of each one. First, select Home > New Slide to create a new slide for your table of contents. Then you can go through the following steps to copy all the slide titles you want to include in your table of contents and make hyperlinks that point to those slides. Note In additional to manually creating a table of contents, you can automatically make a hyperlinked, picture-based table of contents. Go to Use Zoom for PowerPoint for details. Windows macOS Copy slide titles from Outline view The fastest way to copy all of your slide titles onto one slide is to use Outline view. On the View tab, select Outline View . Right-click in the thumbnails pane, point to Collapse , and then select Collapse All . Select and drag to select all the slide titles you want to include, and then right-click and select Copy . On the View tab, select Normal . Switch to the text box on your table of contents slide, and on the Home tab, select Paste > Paste Special . In the Paste Special dialog box, select either Formatted Text (RTF) or Unformatted Text , and select OK . You may want to use Font options on the Home tab to change the appearance of your summary or contents list. Make hyperlinks to the individual slides in your table of contents After you have the titles on your table of contents slide, turn each one into a hyperlink that jumps to the corresponding slide in your presentation. Select one of the titles you pasted on the table of contents slide. On the Insert tab, select Link . In the Insert Hyperlink dialog box, select the Place in This Document tab. In the Select a place in this document box, under Slide Titles , select the slide title that corresponds to the title you selected in step 1. Select OK to insert a hyperlink on your table of content slide. Repeat steps 1-5 for each hyperlink you want to create in your table of contents. Copy slide titles from Outline view The fastest way to copy all of your slide titles onto one slide is to use Outline view. On the View tab, select Outline View . Ctrl+click or right-click in the thumbnails pane, point to Collapse , and then select Collapse All . Select and drag to select all the slide titles you want to include and then copy them. (Ctrl+click or right-click, and then select Copy .) On the View tab, select Normal . Click in the text box on your table of contents slide, and then select Edit > Paste Special . In the Paste Special dialog box, select either Formatted Text (RTF) or Unformatted Text , and select OK . You may want to use Font options on the Home tab to change the appearance of your summary or contents list. Make hyperlinks to the individual slides in your table of contents After you have the titles on your table of contents slide, turn each one into a hyperlink that jumps to the corresponding slide in your presentation. Select one of the titles you pasted on the table of content slide. On the Insert menu, select Hyperlink . In the Insert Hyperlink dialog box, select the This Document tab. Select the triangle next to Slide Titles to expand the list of slide titles for the current presentation. Then select the slide title that corresponds to the title you selected in step 1. Select OK to insert a hyperlink on your table of content slide. Repeat steps 1-5 for each hyperlink you want to create in your table of contents. Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026