Export a presentation | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Export a presentation Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016 Get help with Copilot Can I set up file type in PowerPoint? How should I save to Microsoft 365? Export a presentation for me. File > Export helps you change your presentation into a different format, such as PDF, video, or Word-based handouts. All these options are covered below. If you simply want to "export" a file (in its current .pptx format) to a different storage system, such as a flash drive, plug that flash drive into your computer and use File > Save As (or Save a Copy ) to save to that new location. Create a PDF You can convert your presentation to PDF or XPS to share with others. Click the Create PDF/XPS button. In the File Name box, enter a name for the file, if you haven't already. In the Save as type list, ensure that PDF (*.pdf) is selected. If you want the file to open in the selected format after saving, select the Open file after publishing check box. If the document requires high print quality, click Standard (publishing online and printing) . If having a smaller file size is more important than print quality, click Minimum size (publishing online) . Click Options to set the pages to be printed, to choose whether markup should be printed, and to select output options. Click OK when finished. Click Publish . Create a video You can turn your presentation into a video file that can be watched without using PowerPoint. See Turn your presentation into a video for the details. Package a presentation for CD You can create a package for your presentation and save it to a CD or USB drive so that other people can watch your presentation on most any computer. See Package a presentation for CD or USB flash drive for the details. Create handouts If you want to use the editing and formatting features of Word, you can work on and print your handouts using Word. See Edit or print PowerPoint handouts in Word for the details. Change the file type Change File Type is the same feature as the traditional Save As command. You select the underlying type of file you want, then click the Save As button. The original file is kept in its current format and closed, and a new copy of it is opened and saved in the format you've chosen. Publish to Microsoft 365 (This feature is available to Microsoft 365 subscribers who are part of an organization .) After you save your presentation as a video, you can upload the video to Microsoft 365 where only people in your school or organization have access. Those people can watch the video in a browser. For more details, see: Learn more about the Clipchamp video capabilities in Microsoft 365 . Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026