Add a hyperlink to a slide | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Add a hyperlink to a slide Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016 PowerPoint for iPad PowerPoint for iPhone PowerPoint for Android tablets PowerPoint for Android phones PowerPoint Mobile Get help with Copilot How do I link a slide to a web page or file? How do I link to an email address? Build a hyperlink reference card for PowerPoint. Windows macOS Web Office for iOS Office for Android The fastest way to create a basic web hyperlink on a PowerPoint slide is to press Enter after you type the address of an existing webpage (such as http:⁠//www.contoso.com). You can link to a webpage, or you can link to a new document or a place in a existing document, or you can begin a message to an email address. 48 seconds Link to a website Select the text, shape, or picture that you want to use as a hyperlink. Select Insert > Link > Insert Link . Select Existing File or Web Page , and add the: Text to display : Type the text that you want to appear as hyperlink. ScreenTip : Type the text that you want to appear when the user hovers over the hyperlink (optional). Current Folder , Browsed Pages , or Recent Files : Select where you want to link to. Address : If you haven't already selected a location above, insert the URL for the web site you want to link to. If you link to a file on your computer, and move your PowerPoint presentation to another computer, you'll also need to move any linked files. Select OK . Link to a place in a document, new document, or email address Select the text, shape, or picture that you want to use as a hyperlink. Select Insert > Link > Insert Link and select an option: Place in This Document : Link to a specific slide in your presentation. Create New Document : Link from your presentation to another presentation. E-mail Address : Link a displayed email address to open up a user's email program. Fill in the Text to display , ScreenTip , and where you want to link to. Select OK . Change the color of a hyperlink Select the hyperlink you want to re-color. On the Home tab of the ribbon, select down arrow next to the Font Color button to open the menu of colors. Select the color you want for the hyperlink. Test the hyperlink Once you've inserted the link, you can test it (in Normal view) by right-clicking the hyperlink and selecting Open Hyperlink . Show and return The Show and return box is grayed out unless you are linking to a Custom Show in your presentation. If you're a Microsoft 365 subscriber and want to use a feature like show and return , click here to read about linking to another slide by using Zoom for PowerPoint , and see the "Choose to return" feature discussed near the end of that article. See Also Remove the underline from hyperlink text Change the color of hyperlink text throughout a presentation Bookmark a slide and link to it from elsewhere in the presentation The fastest way to create a basic web hyperlink on a PowerPoint slide is to press Enter after you type the address of an existing webpage (such as http:⁠//www.contoso.com). You can link to a web page, link to a different place in your presentation, open a different presentation, or begin a message to an email address. Link to a web page In Normal view, select the text, shape, or picture that you want to use as a hyperlink. On the Insert tab, select Link . The Insert Hyperlink dialog appears. Text to Display : The linked text in the document. ScreenTip : Text shown when you point your mouse at the linked text on the slide. Enter the web address in the Address box. (Example: https:⁠//www.contoso.com). Change the color of a hyperlink Select the hyperlink you want to re-color. On the Home tab of the ribbon, select down arrow next to the Font Color button to open the menu of colors. Select the color you want for the hyperlink. Link to a slide in the same presentation In the Insert Hyperlink dialog box, select This Document . Under Select a place in this document , select the slide you want to link to. Link to a different presentation In the Insert Hyperlink dialog box, select Web Page or File . Click Select and then choose the presentation or file you want to link to. Note PowerPoint for macOS can't link to a specific slide on another presentation. Link to an email address In the Insert Hyperlink dialog box, select Email Address . In the Email address box, type the email address that you want to link to, or in the Recently used email addresses box, select an email address. In the Subject box, type the subject of the email message. See Also Bookmark a slide and link to it from elsewhere in the presentation Link to a web page or file Open a new presentation or current presentation in PowerPoint for the web . Highlight the text that you want to be the hyperlink. On the Insert tab, select Link . The Link dialog box opens. In the Display text box, type the text you want to be visible on the slide for the hyperlink. Enter the web address in the Address box. (Example: https:⁠//www.contoso.com) Select Insert. To test the hyperlink, select the Slide Show tab on the ribbon, and then select Play from Beginning. (If you've turned off the Simplified Ribbon, you don't have a Slide Show tab; instead use the View tab to start Slide Show.) Link to a slide in the same presentation Select the text that you want to use as a hyperlink. Click Insert > Link in the ribbon to open Insert Hyperlink dialog box In the Insert Hyperlink dialog box, select This Presentation . Select the slide you want to link to. Click Insert. Test the hyperlink Once you've inserted the link, you can test it (in Normal view) by right-clicking the hyperlink and selecting Open Hyperlink . Note You can also create a hyperlink to an email address. Instead of entering the web address in the Address box, type mailto:// followed by the complete email address. Insert a hyperlink On the slide, tap where you want to add the link. On the Insert tab of the ribbon, select Link . Select Insert Link . Or: You can make a link to a recent web address or recently open file by selecting the item from the Recent Items list that appears. In the Address box, enter the address you want to link to. (Example: https:⁠//www.contoso.com) In the Text to display box, enter the text that will be the hyperlink. Select Done . Change the color of a hyperlink Select the hyperlink you want to re-color. On the Home tab of the ribbon, tap the Font Color button to open the menu of colors. Tap the color you want for the hyperlink. Insert a hyperlink On the slide, tap where you want to add the link. On the Insert tab of the ribbon, select Link . Select Insert Link . Or: You can make a link to a recent web address or recently open file by selecting the item from the Recent Items list that appears. In the Text to display box, enter the text that will be the hyperlink. In the Address box, enter the address you want to link to. (Example: https:⁠//www.contoso.com) Select Insert . Change the color of a hyperlink Select the hyperlink you want to re-color. On the Home tab of the ribbon, tap the arrow next to the Font Color button to open the menu of colors. Tap the color you want for the hyperlink. Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026