Save PowerPoint presentations as PDF files | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Save PowerPoint presentations as PDF files Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016 When you save presentation as a PDF file it freezes the formatting and layout. People can view the slides even if they don’t have PowerPoint, but they can’t make changes to it. Windows macOS Web Select File > Export . Select Create PDF/XPS Document , then select Create PDF/XPS . In the Publish as PDF or XPS dialog box, choose a location to save the file to. If you want it to have a different name, enter it in the File name box. Optionally, if you want to change what the final PDF file is like, do any of the following: At Optimize for , select Standard for higher quality (for example, if you want to print it). Select Minimum size to make the file smaller (for example, if you want to send it as an e-mail attachment). Select Options to set how the presentation will appear as a PDF. Here are some of the available options: To save the current slide only as a PDF, under Range , select Current slide . To save specific slides as PDF, in Slides(s) , enter the slide number range in From and To boxes. If you don't want to save slides, but instead only save comments, handouts, or Outline view, under Publish what , select an appropriate option. You can also specify the number of slides to appear in Slides per page dropdown box, and modify the order ( Horizontal or Vertical ). You can choose to include frame slides, hidden slides, comments, ink, non-printing information such as Document properties or Document structure tags, in your PDF by selecting the appropriate options. Select OK . Select Publish . There are two ways to make your PowerPoint for macOS presentation a PDF. You can save your presentation as a PDF in File > Save As . --OR-- You can export your presentation as a PDF file by going to File > Export . Both methods do the same thing, so you can choose whichever you're more familiar with when you want to create a PDF version of your presentation. Method 1: Save your presentation as a PDF Select File > Save As . Choose the location where you'd like to save your PDF, and then in the File Format menu, choose PDF. Method 2: Export your presentation as a PDF Select File > Export . In the File Format menu, choose PDF. Note If you’d like to have more options to customize PDF conversions of presentations in PowerPoint for macOS, let us know by providing us feedback. See How do I give feedback on Microsoft Office? for more information. Set the print quality of the PDF Features such as saving notes, saving slides as handouts, including hidden slides in the PDF, or setting the PDF to a smaller file size aren't available. However, you can set the print quality of a PDF to a higher or lower standard. Tip PowerPoint for macOS doesn't preserve hyperlinks in PDFs but if you save your presentation to OneDrive you can open it in PowerPoint for the web and download as PDF from there. PDF files generated from PowerPoint for the web preserve hyperlinks, are accessible, and also tend to have a smaller file size. You can set the print quality of the PDF to High , Medium , or Low —depending on your need. By default, the print quality is set to High—which is the optimal choice for printing a PDF. Follow these instructions to set the print quality of the PDF: Select the PowerPoint menu > Preferences . In the PowerPoint Preferences dialog box, select General . Under Print Quality (Paper/PDF) , set the Desired Quality to an option of your choice. Select File , then Export . Select Download as PDF to convert the file to PDF. Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026