Paste Text Only shortcut in Word | Microsoft Community Hub
Open Side Menu
Skip to content
Tech Community Community Hubs Products
Topics
Blogs
Events
Skills Hub
Community
Register Sign In
Microsoft Community Hub
Communities Products
Microsoft 365
Microsoft 365 Insider Blog
Blog Post
Microsoft 365 Insider Blog
4 MIN READ
Paste Text Only shortcut in Word
Linda_C Microsoft
Aug 25, 2024
(Originally published on Mar 7, 2023 by Ali Forelli )
Hi, Microsoft 365 Insiders! I’m Ali Forelli, a Product Manager on the Word team working on Accessibility features. I’m happy to announce that the Paste Text Only shortcut is available in Word for Windows, Word for Mac, and Word for the web! Try this feature here .
Paste Text Only shortcut in Word
Wouldn’t it be great if you could just copy and paste text from a website into your document and have it look good? Imagine not having to manually remove the source formatting like font size, type, or background color.
You might be familiar with this shortcut Ctrl + Shift + V ( Cmd + Shift + V on Mac)—it’s also called “keep text only” or “paste plain text”—because of its popularity in other applications like Microsoft Teams, Word for the web, Google, and Gmail. No matter what you call it, the Paste Text Only shortcut is now available in Word for Windows and Word Mac.
Paste Text Only shortcut
How it works
Select a range of text from your current document, or another document or
In your Word document, place the cursor where you want the text to appear.
Press Ctrl + Shift + V ( Cmd + Shift + V on Mac). Notice how the pasted content matches the neighboring text formatting, rather than preserving its original font size, color, etc.
Feedback in action
Word has been a product since 1983 (Word turns 40 this year!). This long-standing legacy creates a precedent for established user expectations. While the engineering team continues to work on new features for improved user experiences with refreshed and more advanced technology, we don’t always have the opportunity to revise pre-existing behavior.
In the case of keyboard shortcuts, the industry standard has diverged from Word’s initial implementation of these features. Indeed, users expect that Ctrl + Shift + V will paste plain text, so when this doesn’t work, the experience can be frustrating. The Word team heard about this problem from users, so we’re updating keyboard shortcuts as a direct response to your feedback. Accessibility is a priority for Word, and we want to make the cut, copy, paste experience as seamless as possible.
Other changes to shortcuts
By updating the paste text only shortcut, some existing keyboard shortcuts have changed. Below is a table of the full list of changes.
Feature New Shortcut (Windows) New Shortcut (Mac)
Paste Text Only Ctrl + Shift + V
Cmd + Shift + V
Copy Format Painter Ctrl + Alt + C
Cmd + Option + C
Paste Format Painter Ctrl + Alt + V
Cmd + Option + V
Paste Special Alt + H + V + S
None
Copyright Symbol ( + C + ) or Insert > Ω Symbol > ©
( + C + ) or Insert > Ω Symbol > ©
Want to restore the previous shortcut settings?
To restore the keyboard shortcut assignments to their original settings, you can head over to the Customize Keyboard Shortcuts help article. Below you will find a table of the command names which you may want to reset.
Note : The Copywrite command is in the Common Symbols category of the Customize Keyboard dialog. All other commands can be found in the All Commands category.
Feature Command Name Previous Shortcut (Windows)
Paste Text Only PasteTextOnly
None
Copy Format Painter CopyFormat
Ctrl + Shift + C
Paste Format Painter PasteFormat
Ctrl + Shift + V
Paste Special EditPasteSpecial
Ctrl + Alt + V
Copyright Symbol Copyright
Ctrl + Alt + C
Tips and tricks
To disable numbers and bullet icons from being pasted in Paste Text Only:
Select File > Options > Advanced .
Navigate to the Cut, copy, and paste
Clear the Keep bullets and numbers when pasting text with Keep Text Only option check box. Word Options dialog box with Advanced tab selected
To use the Paste Options floatie to choose other paste options:
Paste content in your document, and notice the collapsed Paste Options floatie will appear next to your pasted content.
Press Ctrl to open the Paste Options floatie or click with your mouse to expand. Paste Options floatie
Choose one of the available paste options.
To change your default paste options:
Select from the Paste Options floatie or go to File > Options > Advanced .
Navigate to the Cut, copy and paste section. Cut, copy, and paste options
For each option, you can choose between Keep Source Formatting , Merge Formatting , or Keep Text Only .
Availability
These shortcuts are available to all Word for the web users and to Microsoft 365 Home and Microsoft 365 Business Standard Beta Channel users running:
Windows: Version 2211 (Build 5831.20174) or later
Mac: Version 16.67.1113.0 or later
Web: Try this feature here
Features are released over some time to ensure things are working smoothly. We highlight features that you may not have because they’re slowly releasing to larger numbers of Insiders. Sometimes we remove elements to further improve them based on your feedback. Though this is rare, we also reserve the option to pull a feature entirely out of the product, even if you, as an Insider, have had the opportunity to try it.
Feedback
Please share your feedback with us directly from Word. Click Help > Feedback and tell us what you think!
Learn about the Microsoft 365 Insider program and sign up for the Microsoft 365 Insider newsletter to get the latest information about Insider features in your inbox once a month!
Updated Jun 03, 2025
Version 3.0
mac
word
Comment Comment
Linda_C Microsoft
Joined August 16, 2016
Send Message
View Profile
Microsoft 365 Insider Blog Welcome to the Microsoft 365 Insider blog! Get updates and insights about Microsoft 365 features as they release to preview channels on Windows, the web, Mac, iOS, and Android.
Learn about the Microsoft 365 Insider program at https://aka.ms/MSFT365InsiderProgram
For technical support and break/fix questions, please visit Microsoft Support Community .
Share this page
LinkedIn
Facebook
X
Reddit
Bluesky
RSS
Email
What's new
Surface Pro
Surface Laptop
Surface Laptop Studio 2
Copilot for organizations
Copilot for personal use
AI in Windows
Explore Microsoft products
Windows 11 apps
Microsoft Store
Account profile
Download Center
Microsoft Store support
Returns
Order tracking
Certified Refurbished
Microsoft Store Promise
Flexible Payments
Education
Microsoft in education
Devices for education
Microsoft Teams for Education
Microsoft 365 Education
How to buy for your school
Educator training and development
Deals for students and parents
AI for education
Business
Microsoft AI
Microsoft Security
Dynamics 365
Microsoft 365
Microsoft Power Platform
Microsoft Teams
Microsoft 365 Copilot
Small Business
Developer & IT
Azure
Microsoft Developer
Microsoft Learn
Support for AI marketplace apps
Microsoft Tech Community
Microsoft Marketplace
Marketplace Rewards
Visual Studio
Company
Careers
About Microsoft
Company news
Privacy at Microsoft
Investors
Diversity and inclusion
Accessibility
Sustainability
California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy
Sitemap
Contact Microsoft
Privacy
Manage cookies
Terms of use
Trademarks
Safety & eco
Recycling
About our ads
© Microsoft
Share this page Share on LinkedIn Share on Facebook Share on X Share on Reddit Share on Bluesky Subscribe via RSS Share via email