Engraving and Embossing Text (Microsoft Word)
Tips.Net
> Word Tips
> Formatting
> Character Formatting
Toggle navigation
Engraving and Embossing Text
Written by Allen Wyatt (last updated February 11, 2023)
If you've been a Word user for years and years (okay, for decades and decades), you may remember that you used to be able to "engrave" or "emboss" text, just as you can apply italic or bold to the text. Word removed this type of formatting in Word 2010, but there is a very simple way to get it back: Just save the document in the old DOC format.
When you engrave text, it appears to be sunken into the page, with shadowing at the edges. Engraved text is the opposite of embossed text. (See Figure 1.)
Figure 1. Regular, engraved, and embossed text.
Once you've saved your document in the DOC format, you can then follow these steps:
Choose the text you want to engrave or emboss.
Make sure the Home tab of the ribbon is displayed.
Click the small icon at the bottom-right of the Font group. Word displays the Font dialog box.
The Font tab should be displayed, by default. If not, then select the Font tab. (See Figure 2.)
Figure 2. The Font tab of the Font dialog box.
Select either the Engrave or Emboss check box, as desired.
Click on OK.
You can also play with different font colors and background colors to make the engraved text appear different.
If you don't see the Engrave or Emboss check boxes in your Font dialog box (steps 4 and 5), then it simply means you didn't first save your document in the DOC format.
WordTips is your source for cost-effective Microsoft Word training.
(Microsoft Word is the most popular word processing software in the world.)
This tip (7793) applies to Microsoft Word 2007, 2010, 2013, 2016, 2019, 2021, and Word in Microsoft 365.
Author Bio
Allen Wyatt
With more than 50 non-fiction books and numerous magazine articles to his credit, Allen Wyatt is an internationally recognized author. He is president of Sharon Parq Associates , a computer and publishing services company. Learn more about Allen ...
MORE FROM ALLEN
Changing the Starting Page Number
Word normally numbers pages in a document starting at one and extending as far as the number of pages you have. If you ...
Discover More
Formulas Don't Calculate as Formulas
Enter a formula (starting with an equal sign) and you may be surprised if Excel doesn’t calculate the formula. Here's a ...
Discover More
Non-printing Page Borders
With your page border in place, you might be surprised if you don't see one side of the border (or all sides) print out ...
Discover More
Discover the Power of Microsoft Office This beginner-friendly guide reveals the expert tips and strategies you need to skyrocket your productivity and use Office 365 like a pro. Mastering software like Word, Excel, and PowerPoint is essential to be more efficient and advance your career. Simple lessons guide you through every step, providing the knowledge you need to get started. Check out Microsoft Office 365 For Beginners today!
More WordTips (ribbon)
Printing Placeholders and Answers
A common use to which teachers put Word is to create tests and answer sheets. By imaginatively applying the features of ...
Discover More
Quickly Displaying the Font Dialog Box
Want to quickly format some text in your document? Select, right-click, and make a selection, and you can get to the ...
Discover More
Understanding Monospace Fonts
Monospace fonts allow you to easily achieve a specific "look" with your text or to line up information in a certain way. ...
Discover More
Subscribe
FREE SERVICE: Get tips like this every week in WordTips, a free productivity newsletter. Enter your address and click "Subscribe."
View most recent newsletter.
Subscribe
(Your e-mail address is not shared with anyone, ever.)
Comments
If you would like to add an image to
your comment (not an avatar, but an image to help in making the point of your comment),
include the characters [{fig}] (all 7 characters, in the sequence shown) in your comment text. You’ll be prompted to upload
your image when you submit the comment. Maximum image size is 6Mpixels. Images larger than 600px wide or 1000px tall will
be reduced. Up to three images may be included in a comment. All images are subject to
review. Commenting privileges may be curtailed if inappropriate images are posted.
Source
(gif, jpeg or png only, 5MB maximum file size)
Source
(gif, jpeg or png only, 5MB maximum file size)
Source
(gif, jpeg or png only, 5MB maximum file size)
Notify me about new comments ONLY FOR THIS TIP
Notify me about new comments ANYWHERE ON THIS SITE
Hide my email address
What is nine more than 5?
There are currently no comments for this tip. (Be the first to leave your comment—just use
the simple form above!)
This Site
Got a version of Word that uses the
ribbon interface (Word 2007 or later)?
This site is for you! If you
use an earlier version of Word, visit
our WordTips site focusing on the menu interface .
Videos
Visit the WordTips channel on YouTube
Subscribe
FREE SERVICE: Get tips like this every week in WordTips, a free productivity newsletter. Enter your address and click "Subscribe."
Subscribe
(Your e-mail address is not shared with anyone, ever.)
View the most recent newsletter.
Links and Sharing
WordTips FAQ
Questions or Comments
Great Branding Ideas
Free Calendars
OUR COMPANY
Sharon Parq Associates, Inc.
About Tips.Net
Contact Us
Advertise with Us
Our Privacy Policy
Author Index
OUR PRODUCTS
Helpful E-books
Newsletter Archives
Video Courses
Excel Products
Windows Products
Word Products
OUR SITES
Tips.Net
Beauty and Style
Cars
Cleaning
Cooking
ExcelTips (Excel 97–2003)
ExcelTips (Excel 2007–2024; 365)
Gardening
Health
Home Improvement
Money and Finances
Organizing
Pests and Bugs
Pets and Animals
WindowsTips (Microsoft Windows)
WordTips (Word 97–2003)
WordTips (Word 2007–2024; 365)
Copyright © 2026 Sharon Parq Associates, Inc.