URL: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/sort-data-in-a-range-or-table-62d0b95d-2a90-4610-a6ae-2e545c4a4654
Fisier brut: C:\00\Projects\LearningHub\_campaign\omul_la_calculator_2026_09_13\F_evaluari\cls8\lectia7-sortare\surse\raw\sort_en.html
Titlu pagina (text brut): Sort data in a range or table in Excel | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home

[Sort orders vary by locale setting] aparitii: 1
   …efore you sort Hidden columns are not moved when you sort columns, and hidden rows are not moved when you sort rows. Before you sort data, it's a good idea to unhide the hidden columns and rows. Check the locale setting Sort orders vary by locale setting. Make sure that you have the proper locale setting in Regional Settings or Regional and Language Options in Control Panel on your computer. For information about changing the locale set…

[Expand the selection] aparitii: 1
   …lected employees would be associated with different departments than they were before. Fortunately, Excel will warn you if it senses you are about to attempt this: If you did not intend to sort like this, then press the Expand the selection option, otherwise select Continue with the current selection . If the results are not what you want, select Undo . Note You cannot sort this way in a table. Learn more about general issues with sorti…

[Continue with the current selection] aparitii: 1
   …erent departments than they were before. Fortunately, Excel will warn you if it senses you are about to attempt this: If you did not intend to sort like this, then press the Expand the selection option, otherwise select Continue with the current selection . If the results are not what you want, select Undo . Note You cannot sort this way in a table. Learn more about general issues with sorting If you get unexpected results when sorting …

[On the Data tab, in the Sort & Filter group] aparitii: 8
   … or table, such as the top 10 grades or the bottom 5 sales amounts, use AutoFilter or conditional formatting. Check out the video to see how it's done. Windows Web Sort text Select a cell in the column you want to sort. On the Data tab, in the Sort & Filter group, do one of the following: To quick sort in ascending order, select ( Sort A to Z ). To quick sort in descending order, select ( Sort Z to A ). Note Potential Issues Check that …
   …might have leading spaces inserted before data. Remove the leading spaces before you sort the data. You can do this manually, or you can use the TRIM function . Sort numbers Select a cell in the column you want to sort. On the Data tab, in the Sort & Filter group, do one of the following: To sort from low to high, select ( Sort Smallest to Largest ). To sort from high to low, select ( Sort Largest to Smallest ). Note Potential Issue Che…

[Add Level] aparitii: 3
   …s, select Smallest to Largest or Largest to Smallest . For date or time values, select Oldest to Newest or Newest to Oldest . To sort based on a custom list, select Custom List . To add another column to sort by, select Add Level , and then repeat steps three through five. To copy a column to sort by, select the entry and then select Copy Level . To delete a column to sort by, select the entry and then select Delete Level . Note You mus…
   …or a row sort. Note There is no default cell color, font color, or icon sort order. You must define the order that you want for each sort operation. To specify the next cell color, font color, or icon to sort by, select Add Level , and then repeat steps three through five. Make sure that you select the same column in the Then by box and that you make the same selection under Order . Keep repeating for each additional cell color, font co…

[By default, the value in the heading is not included in the sort operation] aparitii: 1
   …row If you need multiple line labels, wrap the text within the cell. Turn on or off the heading row It's usually best to have a heading row when you sort a column to make it easier to understand the meaning of the data. By default, the value in the heading is not included in the sort operation. Occasionally, you may need to turn the heading on or off so that the value in the heading is or is not included in the sort operation. Do one of…

[Occasionally, you may need to turn the heading on or off] aparitii: 1
   … or off the heading row It's usually best to have a heading row when you sort a column to make it easier to understand the meaning of the data. By default, the value in the heading is not included in the sort operation. Occasionally, you may need to turn the heading on or off so that the value in the heading is or is not included in the sort operation. Do one of the following: To exclude the first row of data from the sort because it is…

[Check that all numbers are stored as numbers] aparitii: 1
   …t. On the Data tab, in the Sort & Filter group, do one of the following: To sort from low to high, select ( Sort Smallest to Largest ). To sort from high to low, select ( Sort Largest to Smallest ). Note Potential Issue Check that all numbers are stored as numbers If the results are not what you expected, the column might contain numbers stored as text instead of as numbers. For example, negative numbers imported from some accounting sy…

[If the results are not what you want, select Undo] aparitii: 1
   …e. Fortunately, Excel will warn you if it senses you are about to attempt this: If you did not intend to sort like this, then press the Expand the selection option, otherwise select Continue with the current selection . If the results are not what you want, select Undo . Note You cannot sort this way in a table. Learn more about general issues with sorting If you get unexpected results when sorting your data, do the following: Check to …

[leading spaces] aparitii: 3
   …before the numbers stored as text. To format all the selected data as text, Press Ctrl+1 to launch the Format Cells dialog, select the Number tab and then, under Category , select General , Number , or Text . Remove any leading spaces In some cases, data imported from another application might have leading spaces inserted before data. Remove the leading spaces before you sort the data. You can do this manually, or you can use the TRIM f…
   …s Ctrl+1 to launch the Format Cells dialog, select the Number tab and then, under Category , select General , Number , or Text . Remove any leading spaces In some cases, data imported from another application might have leading spaces inserted before data. Remove the leading spaces before you sort the data. You can do this manually, or you can use the TRIM function . Sort numbers Select a cell in the column you want to sort. On the Data…
