https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/animate-text-or-objects-305a1c94-83b1-4778-8df5-fcf7a9b7b7c6

Animate text or objects | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Animate text or objects Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016 Get help with Copilot How do I add more effects to an object? How do I play multiple animations at once? Build an animation checklist for PowerPoint. You can animate the text, pictures, shapes, tables, SmartArt graphics, and other objects in your PowerPoint presentation. Effects can make an object appear, disappear, or move. They can change an object's size or color. Effects can respond to mouse clicks or other actions, giving an interactive feel to your presentation. Windows macOS Web Add animations to text, pictures, shapes, and more in your presentation Select the object or text you want to animate. Select Animations and choose an animation. Select Effect Options and choose an effect. Manage animations and effects There are different ways to start animations in your presentation: On Click : Start an animation when you click a slide. With Previous : Play an animation at the same time as the previous animation in your sequence. After Previous : Start an animation immediately after the previous one happens. Duration : Lengthen or shorten an effect. Delay : Add time before an effect runs. Add more effects to an animation Select an object or text with an animation. Select Add Animation and choose one. Change the order of animations Select an animation marker. Choose the option you want: Move Earlier : Make an animation appear earlier in the sequence. Move Later : Make an animation occur later in the sequence. Add animation to grouped objects You can add an animation to grouped objects, text, and more. Press Ctrl and select the objects you want. Select Shape Format > Group > Group to group the objects together. Select Animations and choose an animation. Add animation to text, an object, or a chart Select the item that you want to animate, select the Animations tab, and then choose one of the following: If you want an item to Click here on the Animations tab of the ribbon Appear on the slide (Select the right arrow to see more choices) Receive emphasis Exit the slide Follow a defined path You can apply more than one animation to a single object. Simply select the object again and apply an additional effect. Each animation effect is represented on the slide by a number next to the object, which indicates the order that it will play in. If two animation effects are set to play at the same time, they are represented by a numbered stack . Edit animation effects To change, remove, or reorder animation effects: Select the slide you want, and then on it, select the number of the animated effect you want to revise. The Animations pane at the right shows all the animations on the slide. Here you can: Reorder or remove animations in Play From Change how the animation works, or add a sound in Effect Options Change how the animation starts and how long it lasts in Timing Choose Play From to preview your changes. Add animations to text, pictures, shapes, and more in your presentation Select the object or text you want to animate. Select the Animations tab, then choose an animation effect. Select Effect Options , then choose an effect. Manage animations and effects The Start option on the Animations tab, gives you different ways to start animation effects in your presentation: On Click : The animation effect begins when you click the slide. With Previous : The animation effect plays at the same time as the previous animation in your sequence. After Previous : The animation effect begins immediately after the previous one happens. There are two more options related to timing on the Animations tab: Duration : Lets you lengthen or shorten an animation effect. Delay : Lets you add time before an animation effect runs. Add more effects to an object On the Animations tab, select Animation Pane . Select the object you want to add an effect to. At the top of the Animation pane, select Add . The new effect is added to the end of the list of effects. It is named for the object. PowerPoint automatically assigns it a default effect, such as Fade . Select the new effect to open it. Then select the animation effect you want to assign to it, and adjust the Start , Duration , and Delay , as needed. Change the order of animations On the Animations tab, select Animation Pane . The animation effects are listed in order. Select the animation effect you want to move. Click and hold, then drag it upward or downward to position it in the appropriate position in the list. A thin, red horizontal line shows you where you can place the effect in the list. Release the mouse button to place the item in that slot. Tip You can press Ctrl+Z to undo an inadvertent move. Add animation to grouped objects You can add an animation effect to grouped objects, text, and more. Press Ctrl and select the objects you want. On the Shape tab, select Group > Group to group the objects together. Select the Animations tab, then select an animation effect. See Also Change or remove animation effects Make words appear one line at a time Animate bullet points one at a time Make text appear one line, one word, or one letter at a time Add an animated GIF to a slide Apply multiple animation effects to one object Add a motion path animation effect 3D animation effects in PowerPoint Transitions between slides The difference between animations and transitions Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026