https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/powerpoint/animation-basics-for-your-presentation

Animation basics for your presentation | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Animation basics for your presentation Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2021 Animation can help make a PowerPoint presentation more dynamic, and help make information more memorable. The most common types of animation effects include entrances and exits. You can also add sound to increase the intensity of your animation effects. Presentation experts recommend using animations and sound effects sparingly. Animation can be useful in making a presentation more dynamic, and help to emphasize points, but too much animation can be distracting. Do not let animation and sound take the focus away from what you are saying. Select a heading below to open it and see the detailed instructions. Apply entrance and exit animation effects Select the text or object that you want to animate. On the Animations tab, select an animation effect from the gallery in the Animation group. Choose the More arrow to see more options. Note In the gallery, entrance effects icons are colored green, emphasis effects icons are colored yellow, and exit effects icons are colored red. To alter how your selected text animates, select Effect Options , and then choose what you want the animation to do. Note Not all animation effects offer the same Effect Options choices. To specify the timing of the effects, on the Animations tab, use the commands in the Timing group. For more information, see Set the animation timing or effect options . Apply sound effects to animated text and objects To add sound to animated text or an object, do the following: On the Animations tab, select Animation Pane in the Advanced Animation group. The Animation Pane opens on the side of the workspace pane, showing the order, type, and duration of animation effects applied to text or objects on a slide. Locate the effect to which you want to add sound, select the down arrow, and then choose Effect Options. Note The Effect Options dialog box displays different options, according to the type of animation selected. On the Effect tab in the Sound box under Enhancements , select the arrow to open the list and then do one of the following: Choose a sound from the list, and then select OK . To add a sound from a file, choose Other Sound from the list, locate the sound file that you want to use, and then select Open . When you select OK or Open , the slide plays a preview of the animation with the sound added. To change the preview sound volume, select Sound and move the slider up or down. To turn off the preview sound, select the Mute check box. Repeat for each bullet of text to which you want to add a sound effect. To preview all the animation and sound applied to a slide, select Play From in the Animation Pane . Apply a motion path to text or an object Select the object or text to which you want to add a motion path. The path that you apply is followed by the center of the object or text bullet. On the Animations tab, in the Animations group, under Motion Paths , do one of the following: Select Lines , Arcs , Turns , Shapes , or Loops . The path chosen appears as a dotted line on the selected object or text object. The green arrow indicates the path's beginning and the red arrow indicates its end. Choose Custom Path . Select where you want the motion path to start. To draw a path of connected straight lines , move the pointer and select where you want the line to end. Draw the next connected line by selectinging where you want it to end. Double-click at the motion's final end point. To draw an irregular path , hold down the left mouse button and move the pointer on the path that you want the motion path to follow. Double-click at the motion's final end point. To see the complete animation and sound for the slide, on the Animations tab, select Preview in the Preview group. Note To move the entire motion path, select it to turn the pointer to a four-way arrow , then drag the motion path where you want it. The Shapes and Loops paths are closed, meaning the object returns to its starting point. To return to the starting point with an open path, such as Lines , Arcs , Turns , or Custom Path , right-click the path and then select Close Path . A linear path is added from the previous end point to the starting point. To change the shape of a motion path, right-click the path and then select Edit Points . Square black handles appear on the path. Drag one of the handles to move that portion of the path. Any part of the path, including the beginning or ending point, can operate off the slide. Video demonstration: motion-path effects You can add more complex or custom animation motions to text or an object. Watch this short demo to see some examples. Animation for SmartArt graphics To apply an animation effect to a SmartArt graphic, see Animate your SmartArt graphic . Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026