https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/apply-multiple-animation-effects-to-one-object-9bb7b925-ab0f-47d4-bc11-85d939194bed

Apply multiple animation effects to one object | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Apply multiple animation effects to one object Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016 Get help with Copilot How do I apply multiple animation effects to one object? How should I add more effects to an object? How can I add another animation effect to an object? In PowerPoint, you can apply multiple animation effects to a single string of text or an object, such as a picture, shape, or SmartArt graphic. Windows macOS Web Tip When working with multiple animation effects, it helps to work in the Animation Pane , where you can see a list of all the animation effects for the current slide. Add another animation effect to an object Select the object on the slide that you want to animate. On the Animations tab, select Animation Pane . Select Add Animation , and choose an animation effect. To apply additional animation effects to the same object, select it, select Add Animation and pick another animation effect. Important After applying the first animation effect, if you try to add more animation effects any other way other than selectinging Add Animation , you won't apply an additional effect. Instead, you'll replace the existing effect with a the one you're adding. Set the start time and length of an animation effect When you want to control the timing of your animation effects, do the following for each animation effect: In the Animation Pane , select the down arrow next to the animation effect, and then select Timing . On the Timing tab, select the Start down arrow, and choose from the following start times: To have the effect play when the mouse is clicked, select On Click . To have the effect play at the same time as the previous animation effect, select With Previous . To have the effect play after the previous animation effect plays, select After Previous . Tip The previous animation effect is the one listed in the playing order in the Animation Pane (usually located just above the animation you are setting the timing for). To delay the animation effect from starting, select the Delay up arrow to the number of seconds you want. To change the speed of the animation effect, set the Duration to the level you want. To watch how the animation effects work together, select Preview on the Animation tab. Play multiple animation effects at the same time You can have two or more animation effects occur at the same time for one object. For example, a picture could fade in and float in. To accomplish this layering of two (or more) effects at once, do as follows: Use Add Animation to add the second effect. For the timing of the second effect, set Start to With Previous . Tip for working with multiple animation effects When you work with multiple objects on a slide, it can be difficult to differentiate one object and its applied animation effects from another. In the picture, below, the default object names don't provide much of a description so it's hard to tell which object has what animation effect applied to it. In the Selection Pane , you can give each object a distinct name to make it easier to work with them when you are applying animations to each. See below: To change the name of an object, on the Home tab, choose Select and pick Selection Pane . In the Selection pane, double-click the default object name to open the box, then type a new name for the object. More about working with animation effects Change the order of your animation effects Trigger an animation effect to play Add a motion path animation Tip When working with multiple animation effects, it helps to work in the Animation Pane , where you can see a list of all the animation effects for the current slide. Add another animation effect to an object Select the object on the slide that you want to animate. On the Animations tab, select Animation Pane . Select an animation effect from the galleries. To apply additional animation effects to the same object, select another animation effect. Important After applying the first animation effect, if you try to add more animation effects any other way other than selecting Add Animation , you won't apply an additional effect. Instead, you'll replace the existing effect with a the one you're adding. Set the start time and length of an animation effect When you want to control the timing of your animation effects, do the following for each animation effect: In the Animation Pane , select the effect you want to edit. Select Timing . Under Timing , select the list next to Start , and choose from the following options: To have the effect play when the mouse is clicked, select On Click . To have the effect play at the same time as the previous animation effect, select With Previous . To have the effect play after the previous animation effect plays, select After Previous . Tip The previous animation effect is the one listed in the playing order in the Animation Pane (usually located just above the animation you are setting the timing for). To delay the animation effect from starting, select the Delay up arrow to the number of seconds you want. To change the speed of the animation effect, set the Duration to the level you want. To watch how the animation effects work together, select Preview on the Animation tab. Play multiple animation effects at the same time You can have two or more animation effects occur at the same time for one object. For example, a picture could fade in and float in. To accomplish this layering of two (or more) effects at once, do as follows: Choose an animation from the gallery to add the second effect. For the timing of the second effect, set Start to With Previous . More about working with animation effects Change the order of your animation effects Trigger an animation effect to play Add a motion path animation Add another animation effect to an object On the Animations tab, select Animation Pane . Select the object you want to add an effect to. At the top of the Animation pane , select Add . The new effect is added to the end of the list of effects. It is named for the object. PowerPoint automatically assigns it a default effect, such as Fade . Select the new effect to open it. Then select the animation effect you want to assign to it, and adjust the Start , Duration , and Delay , as needed. Set the start time and length of an animation effect In the Animation pane, select the object whose timing you want to set. Select the list next to Start , then choose the option you want: To have the effect play when the mouse is clicked, select On Click . To have the effect play at the same time as the previous animation effect, select With Previous . Tip The previous animation effect is the one listed in the playing order in the Animation Pane (usually located just above the animation you are setting the timing for). To have the effect play after the previous animation effect plays, select After Previous . To delay the animation effect from starting, select Delay and enter the number of seconds you want the delay to be (in increments of .25 seconds). To change the speed of the animation effect, set the Duration to the length of time (in seconds) you want. Play multiple animation effects at the same time In the Animation pane, use Add to add the second effect, as described above under "Add another animation effect to an object." For the timing of the second effect, set Start to With Previous . See Also Animate text or objects Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026