https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/animate-or-make-words-appear-one-line-at-a-time-in-powerpoint-cfb5ebdc-90cf-4324-8933-874c7c840175

Animate or make words appear one line at a time in PowerPoint | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Animate or make words appear one line at a time in PowerPoint Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2019 for Mac PowerPoint 2016 Get help with Copilot How do I make text appear one line at a time? How do I update my animations? Build a guide to animate words one line at a time. An animation effect option called By Paragraph lets you make list items appear one at a time. This type of animation is sometimes called a build slide . Windows macOS Web Make text appear one line at a time On the slide, select the box that contains your text. Select the Animations tab, and then pick an animation, such as Appear , Fade In , or Fly In . For some animations, such as Fly In , select Effects Options , as you'll need to pick a direction for the bullets to fly in from, such as bottom, top, left, or right. Select Effect Options , and then select By Paragraph to make the paragraphs of text appear one at a time. (The other option, All at Once , makes all the lines of text appear at the same time.) PowerPoint immediately previews the animation for you. By default, when you present in Slide Show, each paragraph appears in response to a click. That way, you control when each paragraph appears. You can modify this setting by using the Start , Duration , and Delay controls on the far end of the Animation tab of the ribbon. Make text appear one letter at a time You can also create a "typing" visual effect by making characters in a paragraph appear one at a time. On the slide, select the box that contains your text. Select the Animations tab, and then select the Add Animation drop-down menu to select an animation, such as Appear . Select the Animations tab, and then select Animation pane . The Animation Pane opens on the right side of the PowerPoint window. In the Animation Pane, select the arrow next to your animation, and select Effect Options . In the dialog box, on the Effect tab under Enhancements , select the arrow next to Animate text , and select By letter . Then you can change the delay time in the seconds delay between letters box. PowerPoint immediately previews the animation for you so that you can see the timing as the characters appear individually. You can repeat the preview by selecting the animation in the Animation Pane and selecting Play Selected . See Also Create a build slide Change, remove or turn off animation effects Make text appear one line at a time On the slide, select the box that contains your text. Select the Animations tab, and then pick an animation, such as Appear , Dissolve in , or Fly In . For some animations, such as Fly In , select Effects Options on the Animation tab to pick a direction for the bullets to fly in from, such as bottom, top, left, or right. Select Effect Options again, and then select By Paragraph to make the paragraphs of text appear As One Object. PowerPoint immediately previews the animation for you. By default, when you present in Slide Show, each paragraph appears in response to a click. That way, you control when each paragraph appears. You may also modify this setting by using the Start , Duration , and Delay options in the Animation pane. Make text appear one letter at a time You can also create a "typing" visual effect by making characters in a paragraph appear one at a time. On the slide, select the box that contains your text. On the Animations tab, select the Add Animation drop-down menu, and select an animation, such as Appear , Fade In , or Fly In . Select the Animations tab, and then select Animation Pane . (In PowerPoint for Mac 2011: On the View menu, select Custom Animation ). The Animation Pane opens on the right side of the PowerPoint window. In the Animation Pane, select the animation effect you want to modify, and then select the arrow next to Text Animations . In the Animate text box, select By letter . The default delay value for the time between letters appearing is 0.5 seconds, but you can change that by selecting the arrow next to Timing and then choosing a new value in the Delay box. PowerPoint immediately previews the animation for you so that you can see the timing as the characters appear individually. You can repeat the preview by selecting the animation in the Animation Pane and selecting Play Selected . Animate text in a shape Now let's add Fly in and Spin animations to the text. Select the shape text and select the Animations tab. Select Fly in in Exit Effects . Select the text again and select Spin . The Animations property pane now looks like this: (Optional) In the Animations property pane, select each animation step and adjust the Effects options and Timing settings as required. Learn more about how to change, remove, or turn off animation effects . To preview the animation, select the first animation and select Play From . See Also Animate text or objects Change or remove animation effects Make text appear one line at a time On the slide, select the box that contains your text. Select the Animations tab, and then pick an animation, such as Appear , Fade In , or Fly In . For some animations, such as Fly In , select Effects Options , as you'll need to pick a direction for the bullets to fly in from, such as bottom, top, left, or right. Select Options , and then select By Paragraph to make the paragraphs of text appear one at a time. (The other option, All at Once , makes all the lines of text appear at the same time.) To preview the animation, on the Slide Show tab of the ribbon, select From Current Slide , and then select to see each paragraph of text appear one at a time. By default, when you present in Slide Show, each paragraph appears in response to a click. That way, you control when each paragraph appears. See Also Animate a picture on your slide Animation effects available in PowerPoint for the web Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026