https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/set-the-start-time-and-speed-of-an-animation-effect-bf8c1cb4-c827-48b6-b756-8c1a3e681a60

Set the start time and speed of an animation effect | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Set the start time and speed of an animation effect Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016 Get help with Copilot How do I set the start time of an animation effect? Show me how to add another animation effect to an object. Walk me through how to set the speed of an effect. Windows macOS Web In PowerPoint, you can control when an animation effect starts and the speed at which it happens. You can even repeat or rewind the effect to get just the right look and feel for your presentation. This article shows you a few ways to fine-tune the animations in your presentations. Set the start time of an animation effect You can set an animation effect to start when you click the mouse, or in coordination with other animation effects on the slide. On the slide, click the text or object that contains the animation effect that you want to set the start timing for. Select the Animations tab, then select the Start down arrow, and pick one of the following: To start the animation when you click the slide, select On Click . To start the animation at the same time as the previous effect in the list (where one click executes multiple animation effects), select With Previous . To start the animation effect immediately after the previous effect in the list finishes, select After Previous . Set the speed of an effect To run your animation effect at a faster or slower pace, change the Duration setting. On the slide, select the text or object that contains the animation effect that you want to set the speed for. Select the Animations tab, and in the Duration box, enter the number of seconds that you want the effect to run. Tip Smaller numbers mean the effect runs faster and finishs sooner, and larger numbers means the effect runs slower and take longer to finish. Delay the start time If you want to delay the start time or pause in between animation effects on a slide, you can set a delay on one or more effects. On the slide, click the text or object that contains the animation effect that you want to set a delay for or another timing option. Select the Animations tab, and in the Delay box, enter in the number of seconds that you want the effect to pause before running. Tip The start of an effect's delay period is controlled by its Start setting. For example, if an effect is set to start After Previous with a delay of 1.5 seconds, its delay of 1.5 seconds begins when the previous effect ends. Repeat or rewind an effect Normally, when an animated object has run its course, it stays at its endpoint and appears in its final form. You can set an animation effect (or sequence of effects) to return to its original state, or repeat. On the Animations tab, select the Show Additional Effect Options dialog launcher in the lower right corner. On the Timing tab, and do one or both of the following: To play an animation effect more than once, select an option in the Repeat list. To automatically return an animation effect to its original state and location after it plays, select Rewind when done playing . See also For more information about using PowerPoint animation effects, see: Trigger an animation effect to play Change the playing order of your animation effects Apply multiple animation effects to one object Animate a set of objects as a group In PowerPoint, you can control when an animation effect starts and the speed at which it happens. You can even repeat or rewind the effect to get just the right look and feel for your presentation. This article shows you a few ways to fine-tune the animations in your presentations. Set the start time of an animation effect You can set an animation effect to start when you click the mouse, or in coordination with other animation effects on the slide. With the slide selected, select the Animations tab, then select Animations Pane and choose the animation you want to set the start timing for. In the pane, under Timing , select Start dropdown list, then pick one of the following: To start the animation when you click the slide, select On Click . To start the animation at the same time as the previous effect in the list (where one click executes multiple animation effects), select With Previous . To start the animation effect immediately after the previous effect in the list finishes, select After Previous . Set the speed of an effect To run your animation effect at a faster or slower pace, change the Duration setting. With the slide selected, selected the Animations tab, then select Animations Pane and choose the animation you want to set the duration for. In the Duration box, enter the number of seconds that you want the effect to run. Tip Smaller numbers mean the effect runs faster and finishs sooner, and larger numbers means the effect runs slower and take longer to finish. Delay the start time If you want to delay the start time or pause in between animation effects on a slide, you can set a delay on one or more effects. With the slide selected, select the Animations tab, then select Animations Pane and choose the animation that you want to set a delay for or another timing option. Under Timing , in the Delay box, enter in the number of seconds that you want the effect to pause before running. Tip The start of an effect's delay period is controlled by its Start setting. For example, if an effect is set to start After Previous with a delay of 1.5 seconds, its delay of 1.5 seconds begins when the previous effect ends. Repeat or rewind an effect Normally, when an animated object has run its course, it stays at its endpoint and appears in its final form. You can set an animation effect (or sequence of effects) to return to its original state, or repeat. On the Animations pane, expand the Timing section, then do one or both of the following: To play an animation effect more than once, select an option in the Repeat list. To automatically return an animation effect to its original state and location on the slide after it plays, check the Rewind when done playing box. See also For more information about using PowerPoint animation effects, see: Trigger an animation effect to play Change the playing order of your animation effects Apply multiple animation effects to one object Animate a set of objects as a group In PowerPoint, you can control when an animation effect starts and the speed at which it happens. You can even repeat or rewind the effect to get just the right look and feel for your presentation. This article shows you a few ways to fine-tune the animations in your presentations. Set the start time of an animation effect You can set an animation effect to start when you click the mouse, or in coordination with other animation effects on the slide. On the slide, select the text or object that contains the animation effect that you want to set the start timing for. Select the Animations tab, then select the Start down arrow, and pick one of the following: To start the animation when you click the slide, select On Click . To start the animation at the same time as the previous effect in the list (where one click executes multiple animation effects), select With Previous . To start the animation effect immediately after the previous effect in the list finishes, select After Previous . Set the speed of an effect To run your animation effect at a faster or slower pace, change the Duration setting. On the slide, select the text or object that contains the animation effect that you want to set the speed for. Select the Animations tab, and in the Duration box, enter the number of seconds that you want the effect to run. (Or use the up and down arrows on the right side of the Duration box to incrementally adjust the timing.) Tip Smaller numbers mean the effect runs faster and finishs sooner, and larger numbers means the effect runs slower and take longer to finish. Delay the start time If you want to delay the start time or pause in between animation effects on a slide, you can set a delay on one or more effects. On the slide, select the text or object that contains the animation effect that you want to set a delay for or another timing option. Select the Animations tab, and in the Delay box, enter in the number of seconds that you want the effect to pause before running. (Or use the up and down arrows on the right side of the Delay box to incrementally adjust the timing.) Tip The start of an effect's delay period is controlled by its Start setting. For example, if an effect is set to start After Previous with a delay of 1.5 seconds, its delay of 1.5 seconds begins when the previous effect ends. See also For more information about using PowerPoint animation effects, see: Trigger an animation effect to play Change the playing order of your animation effects Apply multiple animation effects to one object Animate a set of objects as a group Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Copilot for organizations Copilot for personal use Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft 365 Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026