Applies To PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 PowerPoint for Microsoft 365 for Mac PowerPoint 2024 PowerPoint 2024 for Mac PowerPoint 2021 PowerPoint 2021 for Mac PowerPoint 2019 PowerPoint 2016 Get help with Copilot What's the best way to add a motion path to an object? What if I can't apply entrance and exit animation effects? Add a motion path animation effect for me. You can apply motion path animation effects to move slide objects in a sequence that tells an effective story. For example, the plane on the right (below) shows the starting point of the plane, and the dotted line between the two planes shows the path it will take when the animation plays. The transparent image on the left is where the plane will end up when the motion path animation is done. Windows macOS Tip Microsoft 365 subscribers have a time-saving option for motion-based animation effects: Morph Add a motion path to an object Select the object you want to animate. On the Animations tab, select Add Animation . Scroll down to Motion Paths, and pick one. Tip:⁠ If you choose the Custom Path option, you will draw the path that you want the object to take. To stop drawing a custom path, press Esc. Advanced motion path options If you don't see a motion path that you want, at the bottom of the gallery, select More Motion Paths... . Select an animation to see a preview of how the object will move on your slide. Once you pick the motion path you want, select OK . To remove and animation, on the slide, select the motion path (dotted line with arrow), and then press Delete. Editing motion paths To do things like change the direction of the motion path, edit the individual points of the motion path, or to lock (make it so others can't change the animation) or unlock the animation, select Effect Options . To preview the motion path, select the object on the slide, and then select Animations > Preview . Tip Preview is located on the Animations tab, just below the File tab on the far left. Using predefined paths In most cases, using one of the basic path animations is a perfect choice for adding interest to your slide. In the following example, we'll apply a Turn path animation to a graphic, use Effect Options to change the direction of the path, and then we'll use Reverse Path Direction to get the final look we want. Example: applying a predefined path animation to a graphic On a blank slide, select Insert > Shapes > Rectangle (or another shape if you prefer), and then select in the upper-left corner of the slide to insert it. With the rectangle still selected, select Animations > Path Animation , and then under Basic , select Turn . After the animation preview is finished and select Effect Options on the Animations tab, and then select Down Right . Move your cursor over the animation end-point until it changes to a double arrow with a line through it, and then select and drag to the lower-right corner of the slide. Finally, select Effect Options > Reverse Path Direction . The animation now moves the graphic from the least visible place on the slide (lower right) to the most visible (upper left). Using custom paths To draw a custom path animation, select the object you want to animate and select Animations > Path Animations , and then select an option under Custom . The drawing method is different depending on the type of path you choose. If you selected a Draw Curve or Draw Freeform path. Select the start point, and then click each time you want to begin a change of direction. Double-click to finish. If you selected a Line or Scribble path. Select and hold the mouse button to trace the shape you want, and then release the button when you're done. To change a custom path once you've drawn it: Control+click the custom path and select Edit Points . Tip If you've never worked with editing paths in a graphics program before, you may find it easier to delete the effect and draw it again. 